
( 49 )
Present: Lascelles C.J. and Wood Benton J..
ms.
ABAKAN APPU v. BANDA.
327—D. 0. Kandy, 21,461.
Civil Procedure Code, e. 461—Action against arachchi for maliciousprosecution—No notice of action given—Public officer—“ Actpurporting to be done by him in his official capacity.&apos;’
A public offioer who does an act maliciously in the pretendedexercise of his authority cannot be said to be “purporting to act ”as a public officer, and is therefore not entitled to notice of action.
Where the defendant, an arachchi, maliciously and in order tosatisfy a private grudge, brought a false charge against the plaintiff,—Held, that plaintiff was entitled to sue the defendant for damageswithout notice of action in terms of section 461 of the Civil Pro-cedure Code.
rp HE facts appear from the judgment.
A. Jayewardene, for the defendant, appellant.—The plaintiffshould have give notice of action to defendant before he broughtthis action. Civil Procedure Code, section 461. “ Purporting ” insection 461 means “ pretending.” It does not matter whether thedefendant acted actually, in his official capacity. If he pretendedto act in his official capacity, he cannot be sued without notice.The word “ purporting ” has a wider meaning than “ in pursuanceof it means “ in the ostensible exercise of.”
The plaintiff ought to have averred in the plaint, and proved,circumstances which would excuse notice. It is not open to theplaintiff to say that he has given due notice, and then say, if noticewas found not to have been given, that notice was not necessary.It is clear from the plaint that the plaintiff himself regarded the actof the defendant as an act in his capacity of a public servant.— It isnot open to him now to say that defendant did not purport to actas a public officer.
Allan Drieberg, for the plaintiff, appellant.—The words “ purport-ing to act ” has the same meaning as “ acting in pursuance of.”The test whether notice is required or not is whether the defendanthonestly intended to enforce the law. Appusingo Appuv. Don Aron,1Hermann v. Seneschal,2 Roberts v. Crilean.2 The real charge againstthe defendant is that he fabricated evidence against the plaintiff;such an act cannot be said to fall within the meaning of section 461.
H. A. Jayewardene, in reply.‘
Cur. adv. vult.
» (1906) 9 N. L. R. 1S8.
3 (1862) 32 L. J. C. P. 43.