
( 23 }
Present: Hutchinson C.J.
ABDUL v. DIAS.
538, P. C., Galle, 48,885.
Theft—Removal of cattle by licensed cattle seizer from private land topolice station—Wrongful loss—Penal Code, s. 368.
Where a licensed cattle seizer untied a bull from the complainant&apos;sgarden and took it to the police station, alleging that he found itloose and trespassing on the road,—
. Held, that he was guilty of theft, as the removal of the bull forthe purpose of causing the owner to pay something which he wasnot legally bound to pay constituted wrongful loss to the owner.
rr’HE accused-appellant, a licensed cattle seizer, untied a hullfrom the complainant’s garden in the night time and took itto the police station, alleging that he found it loose and trespassingon the road. The Magistrate convicted the accused under section368 of the Penal Code.
The accused appealed.
1 (1906) 9 X. L. R. 359.3 (1909) 4 Leader 69.
* (1909) 12 N. L. R. 139.« (1906) 2 A. C. R. 10.
3 (1906) 9 R. L. R. 217.
Sept. 20,1910
( 24 )
Sept.20,1910£ st. V. Jayewardene, for the appellant.—“Intention to take
Abdulv.Dias dishonestly” is a necessary ingredient of the offence of theft. Athing is said to be done dishonestly when it is done with theintention of causing wrongful gain to one person or wrongful loss toanother.
It is clear that the accused did not cause any wrongful gain tohimself. It was held in India that the illegal seizure and im-pounding of cattle, even though it was effected with the maliciousintent of subjecting the owners to expense, inconvenience, andannoyance, was not “ wrongful loss ” to the owners. AradhumMundul v. Myan Khan Takadjeer.1 Removal of cattle with theobject of coercing the owner to pay a sum of money which heowed to the accused was held not to be theft. Patra v. UdoySant:1
Cur. adv. vult.
September 20, 1910. Hutchinson O.J.—
The appellant was convicted of the theft of a bull. He is alicensed cattle seizer. The evidence for the prosecution, which theMagistrate believed, went to show that the appellant untied thebull from the complainant’s garden in the night lime and took itto the police station, alleging that he found it loose and trespassingon the roa&apos;d. The proctor for the accused argued that, evenadmitting the facts to be as stated by the complainant, illegalremoval of cattle by a licensed seizer is not theft, but the Magistrateruled that it is. The Penal Code enacts that: “ Whoever, intendingto take dishonestly any movable property out of the possession ofany person without that person’s consent, moves that property inorder to such taking, is said to commit 4 theft ’ ; and the meaningof44 dishonestly ” is stated in section 22 : 44 Whoever docs anythingwith the intention of causing wrongful gain to one person, or wrong-ful loss to another person, is said to do that thing 4 dishonestly.’ ”And by section 21 44 4 wrongful gain ’ is gain by unlawful means ofproperty to which the person gaining is not legally entitled. ” Thisman moved the bull, intending to take it out of the owner’spossession without his consent; the question is, whether he did it“ dishonestly” within the meaning of the Code. He intended tocause loss to the owner, who, if the accused could satisfy the Courtor Village Tribunal that the bull was trespassing, would have topay something under the Cattle Trespass Ordinance in order to gethis bull back ; and at first sight that would seem to be wrongfulloss. But it is contended that it is not “ wrongful loss ” as definedby section 21 ; and two decisions of Indian Courts are quoted insupport of that view. In the case of Myan Khan Takadjeer1 theaccused illegally seized cattle while grazing on fallow land and,
1 (1875) U W. R. Cr. 7.2 (1895) Z2 Cal. €99.