
( 226 )
June26,1911
Present: Lascelles C.J. and Middleton J.ABDUL RAHIMAN v. AMERASEKERA et al.152—D. C. Galle, 10,069.
Coats—Two defendants filing answer Inf the same proctor—Action dismissedagainst one defendant—Successful defendant entitled to half costs ofdefence.
Where plaintiff sued two defendants who appeared by the sameproctor, and where judgment was entered for the plaintiff withcosts against one of the defendants, and the action was dismissedagainst the other defendant,—
Held, that the successful defendant was entitled to recover fromthe plaintiff half the costs of the defence.
I
N this case plaintiff sued to recover damages from the twodefendants, who he alleged had allowed a lire which they
set to their chena to spread to plaintiff’s cinnamon land. Bothdefendants retained the same proctor (who filed separate answers)and advocate for the trial.
1 (1889-90) 9 S. C. C. 42.2 (1861) Rem. 1860-62, 88.
3 (1862) Raw, 1866-62. 1H.
( 227 )
The learned District Judge (B. Constantine, Esq.) gave judgmentfor the plaintiff against the first defendant with costs, and dismissedthe action against the second defendant, and made the followingorder as to costs
JimeZG. 1911
AbdulBdkiman v.Amerasekera
He has had no separate trial costs, but will receive from plaintiffhis costs of filing answer.
The plaintiff appealed, on the facts, against the dismissal of theaction against the second defendant, and the second defendant gavenotice of a cross appeal under section 772 of the Civil ProcedureCode against the order as to costs.
Bawa (with him Balasingham), for the plaintiff, appellant.
H. A. Jayewardene, for the second defendant, respondent.
(Plaintiff’s appeal, which was solely on the facts, was dismissed.)
H. A. Jayewardene, for the second defandant, appellant.—Theorder as to costs is wrong on principle. Where two defendantsappear by the same solicitor and only one defendant succeeds, thesuccessful defendant is entitled to half the total costs of the defence.Beaumont v. Senior and Bull.&apos;
Balasingham (with him Bawa), for the plaintiff, respondent.—Thequestion of costs is one which is pre-eminently within the discretionof the District Judge. A successful party is not, as of right, in law,entitled to his costs. In the present case the learned District Judgehas awarded the second defendant some costs. The appeal is onlyone as to the quantum of costs. The Supreme Court has consistentlydeclined to interfere with the discretion of,the lower courts on thequestion of costs, unless a manifest injustice has been caused byits exercise. The plaintiff had good reasons for suing the seconddefendant. Counsel cited Government Agent, Uva, v. Banda-.
June 26, 1911. Lascelles C.J.—
.-. The second defendant’s counsel
has, however, given notice of a cross appeal with regard to the costsof the action. In the Court below he was successful. The actionagainst him was dismissed. But the District Judge has only allowedhim the costs of filing answer, and against this order, with regard tothe costs, he now appeals. I have no doubt that if the principlewhich is ordinarily applicable in cases of this kind had been broughtto the notice of the District Judge, his order as to the seconddefendant’s costs would have been different. The rule prevalent inEngland is as follows : Where several defendants*; retain the samesolicitor, each of them can only be charged with his proportion of the
1 (1903) 1 K. B, Z82.- (1910) 13 X. L. R. 311.