
( 442 )
1920..«
Present: Ennis J. and Loos A.J.
ABILINU HAMINE v. APPUHAMY326—D. G. Batnapura, 3,239.
Written promise of marriage—Notice of marriage—Letter by defendant&apos;sproctor.
A notice of marriage given to the Registrar and a letter writtenby the defendant&apos;s proctor after the plaintiff had made a claim for breachof promise of marriage were held not sufficient to constitute a written promiseof marriage within the meaning of section 21 of the Marriage Ordinance of1907.
*~r,HE facts are set out in the judgment of the District Judge (F. D.Peries, Esq.): —
Tii this case there is ample documentary proof of ithe defendant&apos;spromise to marry the plaintiff, who in this action is represented by hernext friend her mother.
This evidence is supported by the copy of the letter written to theplaintiff&apos;s proctorbythedefendant&apos;s proctor (P. 6). In the appeal
decision in D. C. G-alle, No. 6,132, Wendt J. has in detail gone intothe requirement in section 21 of Ordinance No. 2 of 1895. In the presentcasethenotice of marriage(P. 1)signedby thedefendant and the invita-tiontothewedding feast(P. 2)showthat the defendant himselfhad
beyond all possibility of any doubt promised to marry the defendant, andthisevidenceis confirmedby the defendant’sproctor acting forhim.
These documents, inmyopinion, sufficientlymeet the provisions of
section 21 of the Ordinance. On issue 1 I hold in the affirmative.
The plaintiff has claimed expenses incurred, including) money. giftedto the defendant, Rs. 417.71&apos;, and damages by failure of contract Rs. 500,aggregating Rs. 917.71. The evidence in regard to these items havenot been disputed.
On issue 2 I hold in the affirmative, and on issue 3 I assess damages,Ac.,atRs.917.71. Onissue4 Ihold in the affirmative forthe
reasons stated above.
I accordingly enter judgment for the plaintiff for Rs. 917.71, withcosts.
The document F 6 was as follows:—
Snt,—With reference to ( your letter of demand dated 1st instant,addressedtoD. C.B. WijesunderaAppuhamyof Panawenna, I am
instructedbyhim toinform you thathe is notliable to pay your client
any damage, and that there was absolutely no breach of promsie ofmarriage on his part.