
( 223 )
AGRIS APPU v. DAVID APPU.
1903.
February 11.
D.C., Kalutara, 2,262.
Appeal petition—Petition signed by Mr. Praetor A far Mr. Proctor B—Delegation of proctor&apos;t authority to conduct client&apos;s ease.
A proctor is not entitled to appear for a client unless he has a proxysigned by snch client, and a proctor cannot delegate his authority toappear in a Court and conduct his client&apos;s case to another proctor.
A petition of appeal signed by Mr. Proctor A for Mr. Proctor B isinadmissible.
HE appeal petition of the defendants in this case was signed
by " M. Dharmaratne for Mr. B. O. Dias, proctor, for first
to ninth defendants, appellants ”.
Schneider, for plaintiffs, respondents.—The appeal cannot be-entertained, as the petition of appeal is irregularly signed. Mr.Dharmaratne is not the appellant’s proctor, and has no authorityto do so. Aasauw v. BiUimoria (22 C. L. B. 86); Perera v..MoUigoda (9 S. G. C. 65). This is not a purely technical objection,
&apos; for the Court cannot hold any person responsible in the case ofsuch a petition. The suitor may disavow the acts of a proctorwho was never authorized by him to act for him, and a proctorcannot delegate his authority to another unless he is speciallyempowered.
Weinman.—The petition of appeal is not bad. If Mr. ProctorDharmaratne’s signature is inadmissible, the appellant’s advocatecan sign it even in the course of the argument, Ibrahim Lebbe v.Harmanis (2, 27, Lorenz). [Layard, C.J.—Do you move to beallowed to sign it now?] I would rather move that the appellant’sproctor, Mr. Dias, be given an opportunity of signing it. In theCourt below Mr. Dharmaratne was understood to have the authorityof the appellants to act for them. It is true he had not their prosy,but he conducted their case in the Court below, and acted for themall through. [Layard, C.J.—That was improper.] Strictly speak-ing it was improper, but as he had acted in the Court below withoutany objection on the part of plaintiffs or of the Judge, hethought himself justified in signing the petition for and on behalfof Mr. Dias. I would ask the case be sent back for the defect tobe rectified.
17th February, 1903. Layard, C.J.—
A preliminary objection is taken by the respondents counselto our entertaining this appeal. The appeal is signed by Mr.Dharmaratne for. Mr. B. 0. Dias, proctor, for the first nine defend-ants, appellants. We are bound by the judgment of the Full