
( 35 )
AITKEN, SPENCE & CO. v. FERNANDO.
1900.
June 13 <0 14
and July 4.
D. C., Colombo, 12,706.
Arbitration—Special authority to proctor under a. 676 of the Code to refer amatter to arbitration—Stamp thereon—“ Recognized agent ”—Necessity offiling power of attorney in Court—When to be filed—Effect of anarbitrator proceeding ex parte—Setting aside award—Misconduct ofarbitrator under s. 691 (a) of the Code—Cost- of Successful appellantrefused for perverse conduct—Entering decree after appeal filed againstprevious order.
The special authority under section 676 of the Civil Procedure Codeto a proctor to refer a matter to arbitration need not he stamped.
The requirement of section 25 (6) of the Civil Procedure Code, thatthe power of attorney in favour of a “ recognized agent ” or a copythereof should be filed in Court, is complied with by such power orcopy being filed at any stage of the case, and not necessarily when therecognized agent takes his initial step therein.
An arbitrator cannot, under the Roman-Dutch Law, proceed in theabsence of one of the parties; and where he hears a case ex parte he isguilty of misconduct under section 691 (a) of the Civil Procedure Codeand his award will be set aside.
The costs of a successful appellant will be disallowed for discredit-able and perverse conduct on his part.
Where an appeal has been filed against an order of the DistrictJudge refusing to set aside an award, he ought not to enter up a decreein terms of the award, but should wait till the Supreme Court decideswhether the award should stand or not.
HE plaintiffs sued the defendant for the recovery of
Rs. 51,254.19, being damages alleged to have been sustainedby the plaintiffs by reason of failure on the part of the defendantto deliver to the plaintiffs certain plumbago sold to them by thedefendant. The defendant pleaded that he was not liable todeliver the plumbago, inasmuch as the sale had been cancelledby the two parties; and the defendant counterclaimed from theplaintiffs a sum of Rs. 17,750.87, being balance value of certainplumbago sold and actually delivered by him to the plaintiffs.
On the joint application of the parties, the matters in disputein the case were on the 1st February, 1900, referred to thearbitration of Mr. H. L. Wendt, Advocate. He was requiredto make his award on the 1st March, .1900. The due date of theaward was on the 27th February, 1900, extended by the Courtwith the consent of both parties to the 15th March, 1900. Afternotice to both parties, the arbitrator began the hearing on the28th February, 1900, and adjourned it to the 3rd March, 1900,and again on the latter day to the 10th March, 1900, when thehearing was concluded, and the arbitrator took time to considerhis award. Although due notice was given of the hearing onthe 28th February, 1900, and of each of the adjournments, the