
( 454 )
Prea&it : Ennis J. and De Sampayo J.
ANDRISHAMY v. SILVA et at.
384—D. 0. Matam, 6,739.
dole by auction by executor, by order of Court—No conveyance granted—
Subsequent sale to a third party by executor without order of Court.
Onthe applicationofanexecutor theCotnft ordered the sale
of certain immovable property, and issued a commission to theSecretary to conduct the sale, and the property eras purchased by B.Thereafter, and before the confirmation of the said sale, the executorconveyed the property to C. The executor died, and his successorexecuted a deed of transfer in favour of B. In an action&apos; by Bfor a declaration of title against C, held, that £ was entitled tosucceed, in spite of the fact that Us deed was later in&apos; date.
Ds Sampayo J.—When the Court exercised its jurisdiction and tookuponitself the saleoftheproperty, theexecutor had no longer-
any authority to dispose of the property, except upon furtherorders of Court,and cannot be allowedto defeat the acta
of the Court in regard to the sale; for that would be not oidydirectly to defy the Court, whose jurisdiction had been exercisedat his&apos; own instance, but to set himself above the Court.
foots are set out in the judgment.
Drieberg (with him J. 8. Jayewardene), tax plaintiff, appellant.
Bawat K.C. (with him Weeraratne), for defendants, respondents*
Our. adv. trait.
1915.
October SO, 1915. .Ds Sampayo J.—
This appeal raises an important question as to .the effect of a saleof immovable property by order of Court. Don Adrian de Silvadied,- leaving a will, of which Charles de Silva was executor. Thewill was proved and probate obtained by the executor in testa-mentary suit No. 8,931 of the District Court of Galle. On June18, 1918, the executor submitted to Court a list showing sharesof five lands as belonging to the estate, and applied for an orderto sell the said properly, and moved that for that purpose a com-mission be issued to the Secretary of. the Court. The Court desiredto be satisfied as to the propriety of the sale, and asked&apos; for certainfurther information, and the required information being subse-quently furnished, the Court, on August 7, 1918, made an® orderfor the sale of the property, and issued a commission to the Secretaryto carry out the sale. The Secretary having appointed an auctioneer,the conditions of sale and notice of sale were submitted to Court
( 465 l
and approved on August 14. The auction .took "jplaee on August – IMS*38, 1018, and the plaintiff in®this aotion beoame the purdhaaar n.of three ‘of the lands, and paid down the purchase money And ^ J.tbe auctioneer’s charges according to the conditions of sale. Thesale was duty reported to Court, and on September 80, 1918, a“ ».SOmformal order confirming the sale was entered of record. It appearsthat at this stage the executor fell ill and died, and die executionof a conveyance in favour of the plaintiff was consequently delayed.Ultimately the Court appointed an administrator ie boms non, who,under the authority of Court, by deed dated December 21, 1014,conveyed the property to the plaintiff. The title thus acquiredby the plaintiff is so far unexceptionable. But when he went totake possession of ,the lands he was confronted by a claim madeby the defendants under the deeeased exeoutor Charles de Silva.
It appears that, notwithstanding tire order of Court made at hisown instance, and the sale effected thereunder by the Secretaryacting under the -commission issued to him, the exeoutor, by aprivate conveyance dated September 29, 1918, purported to sell theproperty purchased by the plaintiff, together with shares of twootiier lands, to the defendants. The plaintiff has brought thisaction, alleging that the deed in favour of the defendants wasfraudulently and oollusively exeouted, and praying that that deedbe declared void as regards the lands purchased by himself and thatbe be declared entitled to the same as against the defendants, and‘also praying for ejectment and for damages.
The District Judge held on the evidence that the defendants werefully aware of the order of Court and the other circumstances abovereojted, and actively endeavoured to prevent the sale by the Secretaryin the hope of securing the property themselves, and that havingdiscovered that the conditions of sale had not been notariallyexeouted, they stole a march on the plaintiff by inducing the es-eeutor to sell the property to them. There is no question as to thereprehensible and collusive action of the defendants and the executor.
But the district Judge considered that here was no binding agree-ment for purchase and sale between the plaintiff and the executorin the absence of notarial conditions of sale, and that therefore therewas no objection to the defendants purchasing from the executorbefore the conveyance in favour of the plaintiff was exeouted, andhe accordingly held that the plaintiff had no title as against thedefendants, and dismissed the action.
If it were a mere question of competing deeds the correctness ofthe District Judge’s view might be conceded. But in my opinionjstion in this case is not so clear as that.. The title does not
on the priority in date of the defendants&apos; deed alone. I thinkthat the effect of the order of Court on the transaction must be tokeninto account. An executor, of course, does not ordinarily requirethe authority of Court to sell immovable property in due course