
( 120 )
1889.
August 16.
ANTHO PULLE v. CHRISTOFFEL PULLE.D. G., Colombo, 444.
Trustee and cestui qne trust—Prescription—Ordinance No. £2 of 1871.
A trustee receiving money on behalf of his cestui que trust cannot setup a plea of prescription in bar of the claim of such cestui que trust.
HE plaintiff, as executor of the last will and testament of one
Lucia Ferdano, deceased, sought to recover from thedefendant, as trustee of the said Lucia Ferdano, a certain sum ofmoney, alleging in paragraph 11 of his libel that the defendant hadon the 31st October, 1881, filed a final account in testamentary suitNo. 3,541 of the District Court of Colombo, wherein he declaredthat he held in his hands in trust for the said Lucia Ferdano a^balance sum of Rs. 8,430 ; in paragraph 12, that he did not paythis amount to her during her lifetime or to her executor, theplaintiff; in paragraph 14, that he held the said amount in trustfor the estate of the said Lucia Ferdano ; and in paragraph 15,that the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff the said sumwith interest, but failed to do so.
The facts of the case in detail are set forth in the judgment ofMr. Justice Clarence.
Defendant pleaded, inter alia, that the cause of action, if any,alleged in paragraph 11 of the libel, and in paragraph 15 thereof,if the alleged promise be in writing, did not accrue within sixyears before the commencement of this suit (filed on 24thSeptember, 1888) ; and the cause of action, if any, alleged inparagraphs 12 and 14 of the libel and in paragraph 15 thereof, ifthe alleged promise be verbal and a cause of action, if any, formoneys had and received to the use either of the plaintiff’stestatrix or the plaintiff, did not accrue within three years beforethe commencement of this suit.
The District Judge upheld the plea of prescription and dis-missed plaintiff’s action.
On appeal, Dornhorst (Wendt with him) for appellant.
Layard, S.-O. (Fisher with him) for respondent.
16th August, 1889. Clarence, J.—
In 1868 Anthony Jury and his wife Lucia made a joint will, theprovisions of which, so far as is now material, were as follows :—They directed that all their property, movable and immovable,should be under the “ power and control of the survivor for life,“ and that he or she should possess and enjoy the same with all the“ issues and rents and profits thereof.” The 14th clause of the will