
( 348 )
1899.
May 29 andJune 1.
BABaPULLE v. RAJAEATNAM et al.D. C., Colombo, 10,344.
Action on promissory note granted by husband and wife—Default of wife to-appear—Judgment entered against wife after husband’s appearance todefend—Invalidity of judgment.
When a hnsban 1 and wife are sued on a joint promissory note, andthe husband has obtained leave to appear and defend, no judgment canbe entered agninst the wife for non-appearance, because by her legal,guardian appearing she cannot be said to be in default.
HE plaintiff sued his daughter, the second defendant, and her
husband, the first defendant, for the recovery of a sum ofRs. 5,000 due upon a promissory note made bj them in favour ofplaintiff on the 20th March, 1897.
The second defendant did not appear, and judgment was enteredagainst her.
The first defendant filed answer admitting the debt due on thepromissory note, but claimed in reconvention a sum of Rs. 8,000,which he alleged became payable to him in respect of a marriagecontract entered into between the plaintiff and the two defendants.It appeared that by a deed dated 25th November, 1896, the plain-tiff, in consideration of the fast defendant marrying the secondd fendant, the daughter of the plaintiff, covenanted with themto give to his daughter (the second defendant) within six monthsafter her marrying the first plaintiff, on their joint request, certainjewellery and a house in Barber street, Colombo, in addition toarother land in Jampettah street already conveyed to the daughter,and to build at a cost or Rs. 2,000 a house on the land inJampettah street, and it was provided in the said deed: —
“ If the said Babapulle (plaintiff) shall fail, refuse, or neglectwithin six months after the marriage of Eajaratnam and MariaBabapulle (defendants), on their joint request, to deliver the saidjewellery, or to convey the said house in Barber street, or tobuild at a cost of Rs. 2,000 a house on the land in JampoHahstreet, he shall pay to the said Maria Babapulle (second defend-ant), in case of default occurring in respect or me jewellery,Rs. 2,500; and in case or default occurring in respect of the saidhouse in Baiber street., Rs. 8,000, being the value thereof; and incase of default occurring in respect of the building of the housein Jampettah street, Rs. 2,000.”