
( 404 )
1914.
Present: Lascelles C.J. and Pereira J.
BALASUBIYA v. APPUHAMI.
160—D. C. Matara, 5,768.
Vendor and purchaser—Purchaser not placed in possession—Action bypurchaser against trespassers for ejectment—Notice to vendor—Subsequent action against vendor fordamages—Measureof
damages—Costs of action against trespassers—Prayer for judgmentagainst several defendants jointly—May judgment be entered forthe full amount claimed against one defendant only ?
It is competent to a purchaser of land, although he has not beenplaced in possession of the land sold by the vendor, to sue a tres-passer in ejectment calling upon the vendor to warrant anddefend title, and if defeated in the action, to sue the vendor fordamage. The damage might in such a case include the costs of theabortive action.
Where a defaulting debtor or obligor is not guilty of fraud, buthis failure to perform his obligation is due to lack of caution of toimprudence, moderation should be exercised in the assessment ofdamages.
Where a certain sum is claimed as damage against a certainnumber of defendants jointly, and as against some cf them theclaim is dismissed, the whole amount claimed cannot be recoveredfrom the rest without at least an amendment of the claim.
HE facts are set out in the judgment.
July 21, 1914. Pereira J.—
In this case the contract sued upon is a contract between theplaintiff on the one side and the first, second, and third defendantson the other. The fourth defendant has been made a party to thecase as the husband of the third. By their deed No. 8,492, datedthe 10th April, 1909, the first, second, and third defendants soldand conveyed to the plaintiff, inter alia, the land called Depagoda-watta. undertaking expressly to warrant and defend the titleconveyed by them to the plaintiff. Admittedly, he failed to put theplaintiff in physical possession of a portion of the land of the extentof eleven acres, and the plaintifE was resisted by certain personsin his attempt to take possession of that portion. He thereuponinstituted against them action No. 10,310 of the District Court ofMatara, and in that action the plaintiff, by notice, called upon thepresent defendants to warrant and defend his title as against thedefendants in that case. They failed to do so, and hence the present