
(. 134 )
Present&apos;. De Sampayo J. and Loos A.J
■v.
BANE A et al. v. PATTISON et al.
348—D. C. Kegalla, 4,803.
Representation by a minor that his step-brother was owner of a certainshare—Subsequent claim by minor from purchaser—Estoppel.
Where minors who were entitled to five-sixths share of a piece oflandknowingly, and &apos; not through ignorance, told the defendants&apos;
agent that their step-brothers were entitled to a two-sixths share ofthe land, and defendants bought the same,—
Held, that the minors were estopped from setting np title to anyportion of the share which their step-brothers had sold.
“ It is generally immaterial whether a person who is guilty of. misrepresentation is ignorant of the true facts, so long as the otherparty is, in fact, misled. But where such person makes the represen-tation, or stands by knowingly, there arises an additional elementof fraud, and in such a case infancy does not relieve him from theconsequences.”
facts appear from the judgment.
Samarawichreme (with him Cooray), for plaintiffs, appellants.Hayley (with him Croos-Dabrera), for defendants, respondents.
Cur. adv. vult.
April 17, 1919. De Sampa?o J-—
The lands, of which the plaintiffs claim one-sixth share, were theproperty of Hetuhamy Vedarala, who in 1863 gifted one-third shareto his wife Hetuhamy, and two-third share to his son Dingiri Appii-hamy. The plaintiffs are the children of Dingiri Appuhamy, and
( 186 )
on bis death in 1889 they became entitled to his two-third share.The widow Hetuhamy married again, and had three children bythe second husband, viz., Punchi Appuhamy, Kiri Banda, andBan Menika. Hetuhamy died intestate in 1901, and the plaintiffsbecame entitled to another one-sixth share by inheritance from her.It is this one-sixth share which is in dispute in this case. In 1907the plaintiffs sold the two-third share which they inherited fromtheir father Dingiri Appuhamy to Messrs. Hunt and Orchard, whoin 1910 sold to the second defendant company. The second bedchildren sold the whole of Hetuhamy’s one-third share in 1908 toMessrs. Hunt and Orchard, who sold the same also to the seconddefendant company. The entirety of these lands were opened upand planted, and are now incorporated in Golinda estate,, of whichthe first defendant is the superintendent, and the second defendantcompany the proprietors.
The question in this case is whether the plaintiffs are, by reasonof certain representations made by them, estopped from denyingthat their step-brothers and sister were solely entitled to theirmother’s one-third- share, and that they themselves had no interesttherein. It appears that when Messrs. Hunt and Orchard wantedto purchase the lands in 1907, they employed their lawyer,Mr. Ondaatje, to investigate the title. The plaintiffs then stated toMr. Ondaatje, as well as to the notary who attested the deed fromthem to Messrs. Hunt and Orchard, that they were entitled to thetwo-third share which they were going to sell, and that the remainingone-third share belonged to their step-brothers and sister.
It is argued on behalf of the plaintiffs that these circumstances donot amount to estoppel. In the first place, it is contended thatMr. Ondaatje was not agent of Messrs. Hunt and Orchard to inquireinto the title of the second bed children to their mother’s one-thirdshare, but was deputed only to consider the matter of the two-thirdshare which the plaintiffs inherited from their father, and which theypropose to sell&apos;, and that, therefore, any representation made toMr. Ondaatje with regard to the mother’s one-third share is notavailable for the purpose of an estoppel. It is further urged thatsince the second bed children were then unwilling to sell, it cannot.be said that in subsequently purchasing the one-third share fromthem, Messrs. Hunt and Orchard acted on any belief induced by theplaintiffs’ representation. I am unable to accept either of thesepropositions. The evidence indicates that Mr. Ondaatje’s authoritynecessarily involved an investigation of title of all claimants.Punchi Appuhamy, one of the plaintiffs’ step-brothers, was alsopresent, and it is clear to ray mind that the investigation was as totitle to the lands as a whole. If in the course of that investigationthe plaintiffs represSnted to Mr. Ondaatje that they were only entitledto two-third share, and that their step-brothers and sister wereentitled to the remaining one-third share, I think the representation
21/14
DSfiAkpAvo-"
Ji