
( 474 )
Present: Lascelles C.J. and Pereira J.
BEEUI v. BALASUBIYA.236—D. C. Trincomalee, 475.
Minor—Appointment of next friend for claim inquiry—Claim by minor
dismissed—Action by next friend under s. 247, Civil Procedure
Code, without getting himself re-appointed.
Aduly appointed nextfriendpreferred a claimonbehalf ofa
minor. The claim was dismissed. He thereupon filed an actionunder section . 247 without getting himself re-appointed next friendforthepurpose ofthisaction.The defendant, withoutmovingto
have the plaint taken off the file under section 478 on the groundthatthenext friendwasnot duly appointed, tooktheobjectionin
his answer.
Held, perLasceu^s C.J., that the appointment of the next
friend for the purposes oftheclaiminquirywassufficientto enable
the next friend to bringtheactionunder section 247 ofthe Civil
Procedure Code, when the claim was dismissed.
Held, per Pereira J., that the defendant should have moved tohavetheplaint takenoffthe fileunder section 478,andthat it was
not open to him to raisetheobjection as tothestatus ofthe next
friend in the answer.
Obiter.—The appointmentofnestfriendlor.the claim inquiry
did not hold good for the purpose of the action under sectin 217.
fJlHE facts are set out in the judgment.
&apos;Wadsworth., for the plaintiff, appellant.—A person appointednext friend may bring an action on behalf of a minor without acertificate of curatorship. See lJdum.a Lebbe et al. v. Seyadu Ali etal., 2 Ounasekera v. Abubakkar. 3
&apos; (lm) 1 Tam. 18.2 {1895) 1 N. L. R. 1.
3 (1902) 6 N. L. R. 148.
( 475 )
An action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code is in the 19121.naiture of an appeal from the.order made in the claim inquiry. An ^^7v •unsuccessful next friend, who claimed on behalf of a minor, need not BalasuHyaget himself appointed next Mend a second time for bringing anaction under section 247; this action is not a separate action.
The order made in the claim proceeding is subject to the order inthe action under section 247.
If the action under section 247 is treated as a separate action,the fourteen days allowed for bringing that action may not besufficient to get a next friend appointed.
The minor would be bound by the order in the claim inquiryunless he brought an action within fourteen days. . To insist on theminor getting a new next friend appointed would in very manycases result in denying to him the right of an action under section247. Counsel referred to Ornery. Lebbe v. Dias et a/.,1 Weerakoon v.
Nikulas,2 Fernando v. Fernando.*
It is not open to the defendant to raise this objection in the answer.
He should have moved by way of summary procedure that theplaint be taken off the tile. Mohamadu Umma v. Mohideen*
The order of the Court in accepting the plaint without any demuron the part of the defendant under section 478 is tantamountto appointing plaintiff as next friend. The Court can even nowappoint the plaintiff as next friend. See Appuhanuy v. Dionts.*
Sampayo, K.C., for the defendant, respondent.—A claim is quitea different proceeding from an action under section 247. For thepurposes of the action under section 247 there should have been aseparate appointment of next friend. Counsel referred to Beenv. Pulle,6 Mohammado Vnima v. Gader Mohideen.7
It is not open to the Court- to make an appointment now.
Wadsworth, in reply.
Cur. adv. vult.
November 5, 1912. Lascelles CM.—
In this case Pakir Mohideen was appointed next friend of the
appellant, who was a minor absent in India, for the purpose of
claiming certain property which the defendant in this action had
seized as the property of his judgment-debtor. The claim was
dismissed with costs. Pakir Mohideen then proceeded to institute
the present action under section 247. When the plaint was filed
the defendant-respondent did not apply, under section 478, to have
the plaint taken off the file on the ground that Pakir Mohideen was
not appointed next friend for the purpose of the action, but he took