
( 213 )
BRODHURST v. HENDRICK SINNO et nl.P. C., Panadure, 347.
September SI.
1896.
Penal Code, s. 183—Voluntary obstruction of Fiscal&apos;s surveyor—Lawful ordersof public servant.
A surveyor appointed by the Fiscal to survey a land sold in executionand to make a map thereof is not a public servant jior a person actingunder lawful orders.
Meaning of section 183 of the Penal Code commented upon.
HIS was an appeal from a conviction under section 183 of the
Penal Code. The facts of the case appear fully in thejudgment of the Chief Justice.
Bawa, for accused, appellant.
De Saram, for complainant, respondent.
21st September, 1896. Bokser, C.J.—
In this case the appellants were convicted of voluntarilyobstructing the Fiscal’s surveyor, a person acting under the lawfulorders of a public servant, to wit, the Deputy Fiscal of Kalutara,in the discharge of his duty, and were sentenced to pay each afine of Rs. 5, under section 183 of the Penal Code.
It appears that the appellants were defendants in an action inthe Court of Requests, and that judgment was given against them.A writ of execution was taken out against their land, which wasput up for sale by the Fiscal, and sold for Rs. 90 to the plaintiff.There would seem to have been some grievous mismanagementin respect of the sale, by which great injustice has been done tothe appellants. The land is 30 acres in extent. The surveyorsaid it was worth, at least, Rs. 1,000. The purchaser says it isworth at least Rs. 750, and the Fiscal valued it at Rs. 350; yet itwas allowed to be knocked down for Rs. 90.
After the sale a surveyor named Soysa received a letter from theDeputy Fiscal’s Office requesting him “ to survey this land with“ the house standing thereon, which had been sold under a writ“ of the Panadure Court.” It concludes by stating that the surveyfees had not been deposited, but that his charges would be paidby the purchaser. An illegible signature followed, with theletters “ D. F.” Armed with this document the surveyor went tothe land, but the appellants objected to his entering on it. Theydid not use any violence. All that they did was that, when oneof the coolies who accompanied the surveyor proceeded to cutdown some brushwood, they tx>k his katti away from him.