
( 129 )
BYRDE v. DAUNDASEKERA.D. G., Batnapura, 1,066.
1902.March 26.
Waste Lands Ordinance, No. 1 of 1897, s. 5—Reference by Government Agent—
Appearance of several claimants claiming divers and conflicting interests—
Procedure.
Where, upon a reference made by the Government Agent, undersection 6 of the Waste Lands Ordinance, No. 1 of 1897, in regard to fourallotments of land, several claimants appeared and claimed diversinterests under divers titles and in mutual opposition,—
Held, that the District Judge’s order that the case be confined to theclaim of the first claimant was one within his discretion to make undersection 16 of the Ordinance.
A more expedient course, however, is for the District Judge to dealwith the claims in respect of eaoh piece of land, frame issues thereon,and adjudicate upon the rights of each of the claimants.
HIS was a reference made by the Government Agent of the
Province of Sabaragamuwa, under section 5 of The WasteLands Ordinances, 1897, 1899, and 1900,” regarding four allotmentsof land bearing Nos. 29, 45, 46, and 70. Of the claimants whoappeared at the inquiry before the Government Agent, the follow-ing persons filed statements of claim, namely, the first claimantclaiming lots Nos. 45 and 46, the third claimant claiming a portionof lot No. 46, and the fifth and sixth claimants claiming also aportion of lot No. 46.
At the hearing of the case before the District Judge (Mr. P. E.Pieris), the counsel for the first and third claimants urged thatthe case could not proceed in its present shape, as the claims weremutually opposed. The District Judge upheld the objection bythe following order:—
“ The first claimant claims lots Nos. 45 and 46; the third claim-ant by a (Efferent title claims an undivided portion out of a blockwhich forms part of lot No. 46; the fifth and sixth claimantsclaim another portion out of lot No. 46, and by a title opposed toand different in its origin from- that of the first and third,respectively.
“ I fail to see how such claimants, claiming divers interestsunder divers titles and in mutual opposition, can be joined asplaintiffs in one action. The procedure is laid down in section11 of the Civil Procedure Code. If all the claimants claimed thesame, it might be possible to join them as plaintiffs, but thecause for action is not the same. It appears to me impossible forthe various claimants to have, full justice done to their individual