
( 401 )
Present : Lascellea C.J. and Pereira J.
CAEIMBHOY v. MOHAMAD TAMBY.
22—D. C. Colombo, 36,070.
Negotiation for purchase of land—Commission to be repaid if sale notgoing through—Default cf would-be purchaser.
The defendant ascertained from the Owners of a land that theywere prepared to sell the estate to Mm for Bs. 105,000. He thenreceived Bs. 7,600 from the plaintiff and gave him the benefit of thenegotiations with the owners, but undertook to return the Bs. 7.500“ in the event of the sale cot going through for any reason what-soever other than the default of the said J. (plaintiff).” Theplaintiff subsequently found that many of the tenements on theland were built by the occupants! who were liable to pay onlyground rent. He offered a smaller sum, which was refused, andthe sale went off. In an action by plaintiff claiming a refund ofthe sum of Bs. 7,500,—
Held, that plaintiff was entitled to recover the sum.
1014.
■U-
( 402 )
1914. . 1 pHE facts are fully set out in the judgment.Cctrimbhoy ^
v*Bawa, Z.C., for defendant, appellant.
A . Drieberg, for plaintiffs, respondents.
Gut. adv. tnttt.
May 14, 1914. Lascelles O.J.—
On the findings of the Court below, which are not controverted,the right of the plaintiffs to recover the Bs. 7,500 depends on theconstruction of the document P 7, which sets out the conditionson which this sum was paid by the plaintiffs to the defendant.This document is as follows :—
Received from Messrs. Davoodbhoy Jafferjee the sum ofRs. 7,500, being my fees for services rendered to themin arranging the sale of Bridge End estate from thepresent proprietors. In the event of the sale not goingthrough for any reason whatsoever other than thedefault of the said Messrs. Davoodbhoy Jafferjee, Iagree to return to them the said sum of Rs. 7,500 ondemand/’
The position of the parties when this document was signed by thedefendant was as follows. The defendant had ascertained fromthe owners of Bridge End estate that they were prepared to sell theestate to him for Rs. 105,000. It is not shown, and I do not thinkit very likely, that the defendant ever intended to buy the estatehimself. But, however that may be, he had received nothing inthe shape of a firm offer ; no agreement which was enforceable atlaw had been executed. Then, after some negotiation, he agreed,for a consideration of Rs. 7,500, to give the plaintiffs the benefit ofhis negotiations with the proprietors of the estate. The Rs. 7,500were paid, and the document P 7 was signed by the defendant asa record of the consideration and the terms on which the Rs. 7,500was paid to him. The sale which was contemplated by P 7 did notgo through. The Bridge End estate consisted principally of smalltenements in the town of Nawalapitiya, and the plaintiffs, whennegotiating for the purchase, counted upon being able to raise therent of these holdings. On inquiry it was found that many of theholdings had been built by the occupants, and were liable to payonly ground rent. It is not clear whether the tenants had acquireddefinite rights as superficiarii, or whether by putting up buildings,with the consent of th.e owner, they had acquired rights to com-pensation, which practically secured them in the position of ground.tenants. But there is no question that these ground tenants worein such a position that a purchaser could not raise their rent. Forthis reason the plaintiffs refused to complete the sale. They offereda less sum, which was refused, and the sale went off. Under the