
( 17 >
Present: The Hon. Sir Joseph T. Hutchinson, Chief -Justice,and Mr. Justice Wendt.
1007.
December 16.
CAROLIS et al. v. DON DAVITS.
D. C.., Colombo, 23,910.
Donation—Reservation of life interest—Last will—Revocation for miscon-
duct—Allegation of misconduct in the deed of revocation—Vesting
nf property—Right of heirs of deceased donee.
A and N, husband and wife, by an instrument dated January 18,1881, purporting to be a deed of gift, donated &apos;certain property toT, S, andG, who were"tobe entitledto themfrom and afterthe
death of the donors.” The donors reserved to themselves a lifeinterest inthe property,andalsotherighttorevoke the giftfor
misconduct on the part- of the donees. The deed was accepted bythe donees.
Ji died in 1881 and T (one of the donees) in 1888.
A in 1892 purported to revoke the gift to T under the powerreserved in tho instrument, but did not allege any misconduct onthe part of T or any of the donees. A by a subsequent deed gavethe lands to- S and G.
In an action rei vindicatio by the heirs of T to recover their shareof the property—
Held, that the instrument of January 13.1881, took effect as a
deed of gift, and not as a will, and that it vested the propertyimmediately in the donees.
Held, also, that thedeedofrevocationwasinoperative, asno
misconductwas allegedtherein onthepartofthe donees.
CTION rei vindicatio. Appeal from a judgment of the District
Judge dismissing the plaintiffs’ action. The facts sufficientlyappear in the judgments. .
Bam pay o, K.C. (with him Van Lanyenberg), for the plaintiff,appellants.
Kawd, Acting S.-G. (with him F. M. de Saram, IF. H. Per era,and D. Obeyesekere), for the defendant, respondent.
December 16, 1907. Hutchinson- C.J.—
The plaintiffs claim to be entitled to certain shares in the landsdescribed in the plaint under a deed of gift, and the decision dependson the construction of that deed.
Allis Vedarala and his wife Nonchy Kamy, being the owners ofthe lands, by their deed of gift dated January 13, 1881, after recitingthat they are ill and old and that the time of death is uncertain, andthat “ we find it expedient that we should make over, during thistime of our sound mind, memory, and understanding, some of ourproperties by way of gift to M. Thelenis (who is a son of a brother ofme, the donor, Allis, and who is obedient and rendering immensehelp and assistance to us), and to my sons M. Suwaris Appu and M.Gregoris Appu,” declare as follows: “ Therefore and in consideration