
( 816 )
1900.
October 19.
CASSIM v. BIBI, et oX.
D. G., Chtlaw, 2,126.
Mohammedans—Action for damages for adultery of wife—Dismissal of case on
plaintiff&apos;s own application, on ground of amicable settlement—Fresh casefor damages for continuance of adultery—Former suit a bar to presentaction.
A Mohammedan husband is entitled to bring an action for damagesagainst another Mohammedan who has committed adultery with hiswife, inasmuch as the ground of action in such cases is the injuryinflicted on the husband’s reputation by the conduct of the adultererand the disgrace and shame to which he is put in the eyes of hisneighbours.
Where plaintiff brought such an action and moved for and obtaineda dismissal of it on the ground that he had settled the matter amicablywith the defendant, and then raised another action because adulteryhad still continued,—
Held, that the dismissal of the former action was a bar to the presentaction, and that no fresh action accrued to the plaintiff.
CTION for the recovery of Rs. 200, being damages said to
have been sustained by the applicant by reason of theadultery of the second respondent with the first respondent, thewife of the applicant.
The issues framed were—
Is the action maintainable for the recovery of damages so
long as the marriage between the plaintiff and the firstdefendant exists?
If there was adultery, does the Mohammedan law allow
damages either as against the defendant or the co-defendant ?
The District Judge dismissed the action as against the firstdefendant, on the ground that there was no claim made againsther, and as against the second defendant he held that an actionfor damages was maintainable, and ordered the case to be set downfor hearing on the facts.
The defendant appealed.
Bawa, for appellant.
No appearance for respondent.
19th October, 1900. Bonseb, C.J.—
This is an action of an unusual character. It is an action by aMohammedan husband against&apos; another Mohammedan, who, healleges, has committed adultery with his wife, and he claims