
( 221 )
Present; Ennis J. and Schneider AJ.1921.
CHANMUGAM el ol. v. KANDIAH el al.8—D. 0. Jaffna, 4,260.
Tesawalamai—What law to be applied when Tesawalamai is silent—Mother living in concubinage with two men, one after the other—Daughters by each bed—Death of one daughter issueless—Extentto which Roman-Dutch law applies—“ Mother makes no bastard—Property devoices on step-sister and not on mother—
V, who was subject to the Tesawalamai, lived in concubinagewith two men, one after the other, and had two daughters, N andM. N married before 1911, and died intestate.
Held, that N*s estate devolved on her stepsister M, and nother mother V.
The Roman-Dutch law, being the law applicable to tbe wholeIsland, applies where the Tesawalamai is silent. But the Roman*Dutch law does not apply even where the Tesawalamai has noexpress provision if a question can be decided by general principlesdeduced from the Tesawalamai,
“ It is not a sound argument to say that when a contest involvesseveral matters, in regard to .some of which a special law hasprovisions and in regard to others it has not, that because thegeneral law must be resorted to to decide the former matters, thelatter should also be decided by that general law. The aid of thegeneral law is invoked to fill in the omissions of the special law,and no more.”
HE second respondent, Yalliammai, was the mother of two
illegitimate children, viz., the deceased Nagamuttu and thesecond (added respondent) appellant, Marimuttu. The deceasedNagamuttu was married to the first respondent before OrdinanceNo. 1 of 1911 came into force, and died intestate inMay, 1920, leavingbehind, besides her husband (the first respondent), her mother(second respondent), and her half-sister, second (added respondent)appellant.
The first respondent, who was administering the estate of thedeceased Nagamutth, filed a paper of consent from the secondrespondent, stating that she, as sole heiress, consented to dispensewithsecurityfarpurposeofadministration. Theaddedrespondents,appellants, objected, and an inquiry was held as to who is theheiress of the deceased, i.e., whether the mother, the secondrespondent* or the half-sister, the second appellant, was the heiress.