
( 327 )
COOBE v. ALLIS APPU.P. C., Colombo, 85,056.
1904.
February 29
Dishonest retention of stolen property—Stolen bicycle found seven months after-wards in accused’s house—Evidence of dishonest receiving, to showdishonesty in retention—Penal Code, s. 994.
Where a bicycle, stolen seven months previous to the&apos; prosecution, wasfound in the bedroom of B, who, having no means of livelihood, livedwith and was supported by A, his father, and B was unable to prove hisstatement that he had purchased it from C,—
Held, per Monckhff, J.,—that a charge of dishonestly ..retainingproperty knowing the same to be stolen does not negative dishonestreceiving, and that evidence which would establish a charge of dishonestreceipt may. although no charge of dishonest receiving is preferred, beused to show the dishonesty of the retention.yiahamadu v. Bandirala, 3 N. L. R. 267, questioned.
A X appeal against a conviction for dishonestly retaining a
•AX bicycle stolen from one Mr. Dix, knowing the same to bestolen. Each of the two accused was sentenced to one year’srigorous imprisonment under section 394 of the Penal Code.
Mr. Dix left it outside the Public Hall in Slave Island, Colombo,on 4th July, 1903, where he had gone to witness an entertainment.It was found some seven -months afterwards, on 3rd February,1904, by the police in the first accused&apos;s house, in the bedroom ofhis son, the second accused, who having no means of livelihoodwas supported by his father, a seller of milk.
The Police Magistrate (Mr. W. E. Thorpe), after reviewing theevidence led, said:“It is quite probable that the second accused
actually stole the bicycle, but recent possession cannot be proved;and as both say that it was bought, I am willing to believe theydid pay money for it, but I cannot believe either was not wellaware that he was buying stolen property. ” The Magistrate foundboth the accused guilty of dishonestly retaining the bicycle,knowing it to be stolen.
The first accused only (father of the second accused) appealed.
Dornhorst, K.C., for appellant.
Rdmanathan, K.C., for- respondent.*
Cur. adv. vult.
29th February, 1904. MoNcfREiFF, J.—
A bicycle belonging to Mr. Dix was stolen &apos;hbout the 2nd or 3rdJuly, 1903. At their trial on thrt 6th of February, 1904, thefirdt accused said that his son, the Second accused, got money fromhim seven or eight months ago to bwy that bicycle: and the second