
( 268 )
1893.
February 14.
DONA MARIA v. DON PAULES DE SILVA.
D. C., Colombo, 715.
Husband and wife—Marriage in community—Death of husband—Right of
widow to one-half of the property held in community—Necessity ofadministering whoir. estate.
Per Burnside, C.J. (Lawrie, J., dissenting).—Though by theRoman-Dutch Law the surviving wife acquires a right to one-half ofthe property held in community during the marriage, yet convenienceand the necessity of avoiding multiplicity of suits demand that thewhole estate of the deceased should, in the first instance, vest in theadministratrix for disposal among the persons legally entitled to specificshares therein.
HE facts of the case are as follows : Eusebias Perera and Dona<
Maria having been married in community in 1866, the formertook on lease on the 23rd March, 1882, an undivided half share ofan allotment of land containing plumbago pits from one Tikira,who was entitled to that share, while the other half belonged tothe defendant. The lease was to take effect from the 17th January,1885, and was to run for eight years from that date. EusebiasPerera died on 16th December, 1884, and his widow, Dona Maria,took administration to the whole of the estate on 3rd September,1885, and raised the present action praying (1) that she bedeclared entitled to a moiety of the value of the net produce ofplumbago won and appropriated by the defendant from the pitson the land from the 17th January, 1885, to the institution ofthe plaint (21st January, 1891); (2) for an account of the plumbagodug out and quarried from the said pits, and of all expenditure inrespect thereof ; and (3) for interest and costs.
In his answer, the defendant pleaded inter alia that on thedeath of the plaintiff’s husband one-half of his leasehold (whichwas an undivided half share) vested in her as his widow, and the(other half on their children, and that the grant of administrationto the plaintiff was in respect of the children’s half only,inasmuch as the plaintiff’s half had already vested in her on thedeath of her husband, when the community of property wasdetermined; that plaintiff therefore, as administratrix, couldonly call upon the defendant to account for one-fourth of the netproceeds of the plumbago, and not for one-half as in the plaintset forth.
The learned District Judge (Mr. Owen Morgan) overruled thedefendant’s objection in the following judgment:—
“ The question is whether the plaintiff, in taking out adminis-“ tration to her deceased husband’s estate, was bound to deal with“ the whole of the estate or only half. It is clear that on the death