
( 4 )
1900.
June 15.
EINA v. ERANERIS.P.C., Balapitiya, 20,220.
Maintenance—Scope of the Maintenance Ordinance—Position of the Defendant—
Nature of order of Magistrate dismissing application for maintenance—
Appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court.
The Maintenance Ordinance is not one dealing with criminal matter,but it provides a speedy and less expensive way of enforcing a civilobligation resting on the father of a child, whether bom in or outof wedlock, to maintain it.
Maintenance cases, being civil in their nature, should be decidedaccording to the balance of evidence, and not on the footing that theinnocence of the “ accused ” is to be assumed until the contrary isproved.
Maintenance is usually given to the mother on behalf of the child,but if she is unfit to receive the allowance, the Magistrate may order itto be paid to a person more fitted to have the care of the child.
Semble, per Bonsbb, C.J.—A Magistrate’s order dismissing the appli-cation for maintenance is an appealable order.
Selestina o. Perera (2 C. L. R. 88. and 1 S. C. R. 224) questioned.
HIS was a case of maintenance. The Police Magistrate,
after hearing some evidence, made order as follows: “ I dis-“ charge the accused. The evidence does not warrant me in“ making an order of maintenance.”
The petitioner applied to the Supreme Court to call for therecord and consider the case in revision, because (1) she wasadvised that no appeal lay against any order on the part of thePolice Magistrate refusing to make an order in the case; and (2)there was ample evidence that the defendant was the father of thechild and had failed to provide for its maintenance.
Browne, A.J., after calling for the record and perusing it,directed the case to be listed for revision and notice thereof toissue to the defendant. The Police Magistrate was also requested“ to inform the Court why he considered the evidence did not“ justify his convicting the accused. ”
The Police Magistrate submitted a report, in which he reviewedthe evidence and concluded as follows:—
" I do not think the evidence is sufficient. Possibly the child“ may be the respondent’s. He certainly never maintained it, as“ he is said to have deserted applicant immediately after the birth.“ I think it very doubtful, too, if he maintained applicant before“ the birth. The two parties live closely together and they are&apos;• relations. Doubtless respondent visited applicant’s house and“ had meals with the family, but to construe this as keeping the” applicant is unjustifiable.