
C 138 )
Present ; Emm and Porter JJ.
FERNANDO et al. v. FERNANDO.
839—D. C. Negombo, 14,SOI.
Property gifted by parents to child subject to the life interest of both—Death of mother—Is father entitled to life interest over the entireproperty f
Wherea property was giftedbya father and mother to their
child “ subject to the life interest of us both donors.”
Held, that on the death of the mother a half share of theproperty became the absolute property of the donee, and thatthe surviving parent was not entitled to take the life interest ofthe half share.
HE deed of gift in question was as follows:—
P. 1.Degd op Gift.
No. 819.
Know all men by these presents:We, Xurukuiasuriya Weerasinghe
Marcel iue Fernando andwifeKurukulasuriyaWeerasingheCharlotta
Peries, both of Negombo, hereinafter called the donors, for and hisconsiderationof the love and affectionthat we have atand towards
Kurukulasuriya Weerasinghe Manuel Laser Fernando and wife Kura-kulasuriya Mary PolorensJaneFernando, bothof Negomboaforesaid,
hereinafter called the donees, andfordiverse other goodcauses, the
following land more fullydescribed here below,which is ofthe value
of Rs. 8,000 of lawful money of Ceylon, to wit: —
The land called Weediyabodawatta alias Suriyagaba walta belongingto me, the first person out of us the donors, upon deed No. 1,153dated October 5, 1907, ofthisland, of all thefruit trees, plantations,
and of the buildings thereon, the western undivided half share, togetherwith all and singular the rights, ways, easements, advantages, andappurtenances whatsoever thereto belonging, or in any wise appertaining,or usuallyheld, occupied, used,orenjoyed therewith,or reputed
or known as part or parcel thereof, and together with all our right,title, interest, and claim therein and thereto, and also together withall . the title deeds and. other writings relating thereto, are hereby given,granted, assigned, and set over, as an absolute gift which cannot becancelled, unto the said donees and their heirs, Ac.
And the said donees, Kurukulasuriya Weerasinghe Manuel LazerFernando and Kurukulasuriya Mary Polorens Jane Fernando, and tbeirheirs, Ac., are at liberty to possess the said property hereby donatedwith the estate rights thereof subject to the hereunder mentionedconditions and to the- life interest of us, the said two donors, for ever.
That the said donees cannot sell, mortgage, exchaoge, or alienate thesaid property, or shall not lease out for over four years at a time,and still not give another lease before the expiration of a given lease,and that after their death, the same shall devolve on their lawful heire,and they may do whatever at pleasure.
And we the said donorB for ourselves and our heirs, Ac., do herebycovenant, premise, and declare that we have good right and properpower&apos; according to law to donate the said property as aforesaid, that-