
( 257 )
[Full Bench.]
Present: Bertram C.J., and Ennia and De Sampayo JJ.GUNATILLEKE v. FERNANDO et at.
265—D. G. Colombo, 51,907.
Sale by a person toho has no title—Subsequent acquisition of title—Exceptio
rei venditae et traditae—Resjudicata—Land, Acquisition Amend-
ment Ordinance, No. 44 of 1917—Is it retrospective in its effect 1
Where a vendorsells without title, butsubsequently acquires
one, this title accrues to the benefitof thepurchaser and those
Maiming through him from the moment of its acquisition by thevendor.
Held, by the Full Court, this principle of the Roman Dutch law—
Is not abrogated by Ordinance No. 7 of 1840.
 Is not available only as a defence, but can aleo be made thefoundation of an action.
Isnot, in the lattercase,limitedto actions brought forthe
recovery of a lost possession.
But, held, per DbSampayo J., whatpassesto the purchaser is
not anactual title,but aright, if defendant,to protecthimself
by an equitable exception, or, if plaintiff, to recover the propertyby an action based on a legal fiction.
Per Db SampayoJ.—This principlecannotbe asserted against
a bonafide purchaser forvalue. (Thisquestion was reservedby
Bertram C.J.)
Where in an action a claim to put forward a certain contention isdisallowed, without prejudice to the right of the person raising it,to bringa separate action toassert it, thematteris notresjudicata
even though no such action is brought.. .
Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Amendment Ordinance,No. 44 of 1917, has not a retrospective operation.
Mariaconveyed apropertyto her son.Palis,subjecttoa fidei
commissum in favourof hersons Stephenand Nicholas,ifhe died
without issue, and subject to a life interest to herself. It wascontemplated by the deed that, notwithstanding the fidei commis-sum, Palis should have a free power of disposition of the propertyduring his lifetime alterattaining theageoftwenty-five,subject
always to hiB mother&apos;s life interest.
Stephen and Nicholas,before theirtitleasfidei commissaries
accrued, sold the property to A. After their title accrued theygifted the same property to F.
Held, that F acquired no title as against those claiming through A.
Held, per Bbbtram C.J.,that Maria havingthus created aspecific
trust in favour of Stephenand Nicholascouldnotdefeat theirrights
by joining with Palis in a conveyance of the property.
1919.
( 258 )
191®.
GunatSUke
v. Fernando
rJ"&apos;HE facts are set out as follows in the judgment of the DistrictJudge (L. Maartensz, Esq.): —
This is an action for declaration oftitleto two contiguousallotments
of land situated in Colpetty,which admittedlybelongedto Maria
Felsinger.
MariaFelsinger gifted the land toherson Palis Swansby deed
No. 860 dated September23,1882, subject tothefollowingconditions,
namely:—
 That Maria Felsinger was to have the right of possession, therents, income, and produce until Palis Swaris arrived at the age oftwenty-five years.
That if Maria Felsinger was alive when Palis Swaris attainedtwenty-five years of age, he was not to sell, mortgage, or alienate the propertyduring her lifetime.
That if Maria Felsinger died before Palis Swaris attained twenty-five
years of age, then -PalisSwaris wasnotto sell,mortgage
or alienate the propertyuntilhe arrived attheage oftwenty-five
years.
That if Palis Swaris died without issues, the land was to devolve
on histwo brothers Stephen SwarisandNicholas Swaris,or their
lawful issue, subject to a life interest in favour of Maria Felsinger.
MariaFelsinger and Palis Swaris, by deed No. 884 datedDecember
5, 1893, sold the land to I>.&apos; J. Fernando.
Nicholas and Stephen Swaris, by deed No. 1,923 of February 23,1895, sold theland to oneDon Cornelis, who bydeed No.4,028dated
February2,1905, transferredthe land toMr.Charles Perera.Mr.
Charles Pereradied leavinga will by which heappointedMr.James
Perera his heir and executor. Mr. James Perera died leaving a will bywhich he appointed the plaintiff his executor.
The plaintiffbases her title on deed No. 1,923executedby Nicholas
Swazis andStephenSwaris. Shealso pleads thatthe defendantis
bound by the decree in case 2,307, D. C. Colombo (land&apos; acquisition).
Palis diedon February 27,1896,havingattained twenty-five yearsof
age in 1891. Maria Felsinger died on January 8, 1916.
The defendant denies that Nicholas Swaris and Stephen SwarisIim anytitle to convey whenthey executeddeedNo. 1,923, andclaim
title to theland byvirtueof deed No.61 datedOctober 17, 1913,
executed byNicholasSwarisandStephenSwaris inhis favour,and
deed No. 884executed byMaria Felsinger and Palis Swaris infavour
of D. J. Fernando.
Whatever title D. J. Fernando had under deed No. 884 has devolvedon the defendant.
[The learned Judge discussed sme other points and continued]: —
I accordingly hold that llicholasSwarisand StephenSwaiis had
no title to convey when they executed deed No. 1,923.
The next question is, whether the plaintiff is entitled to rely on thetitle subsequently acquired by Nicholas- and Stephen Swaris after thedeath of Palis Swaris, although Nicholas and Stephen have not executeda conveyance in her favour after they had acquired title.
( 259 )
With regardto thisquestion, theSupreme Court held,in thecase of 1918‘
Mohammed Bhoy et al. v. Lebbo Marikar et el., 1 that where a vendorQunatiUeke
had no title at the time of the sale, but afterwards acquires title, the Fernandopurchaser’s title isnotconfirmedfromthetime the vendor so acquires
title without a further deed from the vendor after he acquired title.
The Supreme Courtheld further,that “ the plea ofexceptioin ret
venditae ettraditae which a vendeeis entitled to setup againstthe
vendor is not available against a subsequent purchaser from the vendor." 1
The ruling inthiscaseis, in myopinion, fatal to plaintiff’s claim,
but the plaintiffrelieson the case ofRajapakse v. Fernando,2 in which
Mr. Justice Ennis and Mr.Justice Shaw held (dissenting from the
judgment in the case of Mohammed Bhoy et al. v. Lebbe Marikar ub. sup.)that where A sellsto B withouttitle,andA subsequently aoquires title,
the title enureB tothebenefit ofBwithout a further deed frcm the
vendor.
In this case thelandwas soldbyC toM and S, who sold to the
defendant, thelandthenbelongedto the Crown.. C subsequently
obtained aCrown grant, and theland was sold in executionand
purchased by plaintiff&apos;s predecessor in title, and Mr.Justice Shaw
held that the defendant inpossessionwas entitled to set up the plea
of exceptio reivenditae et traditaeagainst the plaintiff,a ruling which
is inconsistent with the ruling in the earlier case, that the plea couldnot be set up against a purchaser from the vendor.
The plaintiffis notin possessionin the present case,but hercounsel
argued thatthat was because she was not entitled topossession during
the lifetimeof Maria Felsinger, andthat the plaintiffshould havethe
benefit of the possession by those who held underMaria Felsinger.
I am unable to accept that argument.
I am of opinion that the exceptio rei venditae can only be set up bya person in actual possession, either by himself or through another,provided that theother partyin possession isnotthe defendant claiming
title adversely .to the person who seeks tq set up the plea.
The plaintiffistherefore, restricted to the pleathat histitle Was
confirmed as soon as his vendor acquired title. This plea arises fromthepassage inVoet, book xxtitle Hi., which isas follows(Berwick’s
translation, passage 531, old edition):—
Section 1.“ Since on the confirmation ofthe right of analienator
(which wasdefective at the time of alienation),theoriginallydefective
right of the alienee becomes confirmed from the very moment that thevendor acquireddominium,and, therefore,thedominium fromthe
time accrued to&apos;the originalpurchaser couldnotbe taken awayfrom
him withouthis own act or consent; hence,he hasthe rightof suing
hisvendor a thirdparty possessoron account of theloss of hispossession,
andof defeatinghisopponent&apos;s pleaby the replication ofownership.
The earliest decision on the point is thecaseofKadireveluPulls o.
Pina,3 where A, who had purchased a land at a Fiscal’s sale, sold it toB before obtaining a Fiscal&apos;s transfer, and undertook to obtain and giveB the Fiscal’s conveyance.
It was held that, in the absence of any conveyance from A, afterhis title was perfected by the Fiscal&apos;s transfer, B had no interest.
1 (1912) 15 N. L. R. 466.2 (1918) 20 N. L. R. 301
3{1839) 9 S. C. C. 36.
IMS.
GunatOeke
v. Fernando
( 260 )
The passage quotedfromVoet doesnot appearto have been cited
or considered.
&apos; Inthecase ofCaroliso. Jamie,1 HutchinsonC. 3.held that a
purchaserofimmovable property froma vendorwho has nolegal
title at the time of sale may, if the vendor subsequently acquires title,have a right to call for a new conveyance, but the title does not passto him without anewconveyance.The ChiefJustice adopted the-
argument that a transfer of land must, since the passing of OrdinanceNo. 7 of 1840, be made inthe manner prescribed by section 2of Ordi-
nance No. 7 of 1840.
This judgment was followed in the case of Mohammed Bhoy el al. «.Lebbe Marikar et al.2
Both these judgments were dissented from by Enms A.C.J. and,Shaw J.inthe caseof Rajapakse v.Fernando.3Ennis A.C.J.said:
“ Iamnot inaccordwith the decision inCarolisv. Jamie and
Mohammed Bhoy v. Lebbe Marikar.” He then quoted the section ofOrdinance No. 7 of 1840 and continued: “This is clearly an enumerationof personal transaction, anddoesnotinclude in its scope transmission
of propertybyoperationof law, for instance, ondeath to heirs. It
seems to me that the English law doctrine that, where A without titlesells to B,and A subsequentlyacquirestitle, the title enuresto the
benefit ofB;and theBoman-Dutch lawdoctrinein similarcircum-stancesof “ confirmation ”(Voet 21,3,1) insuch a transmission
Mr. Justice Shawsays:“ Although feelingsome mistrust ofan
opinionopposed to such authorities, Ifindmyselfunable to accept the
correctness of the view taken in those cases. &apos; The provisions of section2 of Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 do not appear to me to refer to, or to beintended torefer to, assignmentsby actof law, nordoesanyfurther
assignmentappear to me to have beennecessaryunder (heBoman-
Dutch law,asstated byVoet, to enablethe firstpurchaser todefend
his possession.’’
Voet, title *., section 2,bookxix.,lays down that “ Theeffect of
delivery .of this vacant possessionis thatif the vendorhasbeenowner,
he also makesthe purchaser owner;if hehasnot, he isonly liableto
the purchaser on account of eviction." Section 14 lays down that avendorcannot be precisely compelledtomakedelivery of a thing
sold, but isdischarged on payingthe idquod interest;lateron,in the
same section, he deals with the usages under the Boman-Dutch law,and casts doubts on the opinionofGrotius that the vendeehas his
election, whether he will accept from the vendor the amount of the idquod interest or will insist “ tooth and nail ’’ on delivery.
The contractof sale is completewhentheprice andcommodityare
agreed on, but according to the Boman law the contract is not fulfilled untilthere is delivery of possession. Section 2, Burge, page 527. If possessionis hot delivered, the purchaser can only sue for the id quod interest.
Section 1 provides that the purchaser has the right of suing hisvendor or third party possessor on accountofthe loss ofhis possession,
and of defeating his opponent’s plea by the replication of ownership.
This section clearly contemplates the case of a purchaser who hasbeen placed inpossession, and whohas beenousted from possessionby
1 {1909) 1 Our. L. B. 224.2 (1912) 15 N. L. B. 466.
3 (1918) 20 N. L. B. 301.
1919.
 261 )
Mb vendor or a third party in such circumstances as entitled him tobe replaced in possession.
Is that the case of the plaintiff?
I amofopinion that it is not.Thereis noevidence thateither she
or her predecessors in title were placed in possession by Nicholas andStephen Swans. Further, when Mr. James Perera OunatiDeke was suedby I>. J. Fernando in case No. 29,620, D. C., Colombo, he did not pleadthat he was entitled to possession and ownership by virtue of deedNo. 1,923,but relied on a Fiscal’stransfer, No.7,894, whichwasissued
to Mr. Charles Perera as purchaser at a Fiscal&apos;s sale when the premiseswere sold in execution against Palis Swaris and D. J. Fernando.
The deed No.1,923 was relied onfor thefirsttime inthe land acqui-
sition case, and then Mr. James Perera was held not to be entitled topossession under that deed.
It appears tome, therefore, thatthe plaintiffcannot,apart from the
decision in the case of Alim Mohamed Bhoy v. Marikar rely, on section 1of book xxi., title iii., of Voet.
The case ofMohammed Bhoy v.LebbeMarikar ismore in point
than the case ofRajapaksao. Fernando, for in the formercase the
party pleading theexceptionwasnot in possession, . andinthe latter
case hewas. Further, in the caseof thelattercase, it wasnotexactly
necessary to decidewhetherthedefendant was affectedbyOrdinance
No.- 7 of 1840,as he was able to pleadtheexceptioret veniitee et
traiHee against the successor in title of his vendor.
I am, therefore, of opinionthatthe plaintiff cannot relyonsection !
of booki.,title ii., of Voet, and that heractionmust fail ontheground
that defendant acquired a better title under deed No. 61 than Cornellsdid under deed No. 1,928.
I dismiss plaintiff’s action, with costB of the defendant and addeddefendant.
Bawa, K.C. (with him F. M. de Saram, A. St. V. Jaywwardene,and Oroos-DabreTa), for plaintiff,appellant.—Thesubsequent
acquisition of title by Nicholas and Stephen enured to the benefitof plaintiff’s predecessor in title. No further deed was necessary.Under the Roman-Dutch law the transferee’s title was confirmedfrom the moment of the acquisition of the dominium by his vendor.He could bring the actio publiciana against the vendor or any thirdparty who has deprived him of his possession. If he is still inpossession, he could, when sued, plead the exceptio rei venditce ettmditce. Ficta traditio, or symbolical delivery, is sufficient to enablethe vendee to maintain a vindicatory action. If his title is disputed,he can put forward the plea exceptio dominii acquisiti. Voet 21, 3, 1et seq. Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 has not done away with thesepleas. The title acquired is by operation of law, and no deedis necessary. Kadirevelu- Pulle v. Pina 1 was decided on the questionof registration. The principles of the Roman-Dutch law were notconsidered, and the dictum of Clarence J. is obiter. The principle of
OunaMUeke
v. Fernando
11899) 9 S. C. C. 36.
( 262 )
191#.
QunatiUeke
v.&apos;Ftmando
the confirmation of the vendee’s title by the subsequent acquisitionof title by the vendor has been considered and adopted in thefollowing cases: Selohamy v. Raphael,1 De Silva v. Shaik Ali,2Ouruhamy v. Subaseris,* Rajapdksa v. Fernando,4 Nonohamy v.Appusingho,5 Kodipilly v. Davith Sinno,% Endoris v. Adman,7 andAbraham v. Nonno.*
The vendor and his successors in title are estopped fromquestioning the title of the first vendee. Ouruhamy v. Subaseris;313 Halsbury’s Laws of England 373; Partridge v. Ward.*
The Roman-Dutch law permits the sale of an expectancy. Voet18, 1, 13. Nicholas and Stephen, the fidei commissarii, could sell therights that would accrue to them on the death of their brother Palis.
The matter is res judicata. The defendant’s predecessor in titlewas asked to bring a separate action when he tried to put forwardthis same claim in the land acquisition proceedings. He was askedto bring a separate action. He failed to do so, and the order isres judicata.
Counsel also cited 1 Nathan 379 and Appuhamy v. Appuhamy. 10
Cooray (with him Samarawickreme and Canakeratne), for defend-ant, respondent.—The proceedings in the land acquisition caseare not res judicata. The claim now put forward is through anothersource. Section 4 of Ordinance No. 44 of 1917, regarding resjudicata in land acquisition proceedings, has got a retrospective effect.Res judicata is a matter of procedure. Caspersz on Estoppel,8. 465; Hukm Ghand, p. 8. Rules of procedure have a retrospectiveeffect. Maxwell 339.
The plea of exceptio rei venditce et traditee is not open to a plaintiff.It can only be set up by a defendant. Wakista v. Munasinghe. 11It is not available to a person who is not in possession, and cannotbe set up against a subsequent purchaser from the vendor. Voet21, 3, 1; Mohammed Bhoy v. Lebbe Marikar; 12 Rajapdksa v.Fernando. 13
The title of the first vendee is not confirmed until he gets aconveyance from his vendor. Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 must betaken to have abrogated the principles of the Roman-Dutch law.Carolis v. Jamis; 14 Alvis v. Fernando;15 Mohammed Bhoy v. LebbeMarikar.12
The actio publiciana is available only to a person who has gotpossession from his vendor. The summary given by Yoet at thecommencement of his chapter shows that it could arise only in the
1 (1889) 1 3. C. R. 73.
(1895) 1 N. L. R. 228.
(1910) 13 N. L. R. 112.4 (1918) 20 N. L. R. 301.&apos; (1915) 1 O. W. R. 80.
(1917) 4 C. W. R. 27.
7 (1919) 21 N. L. R. 224.
»(1912) 15 N. L. R. 302.a(1910) 2 Oh. 342.
“ (1880) 3 S. C. C. 61.
11 (1913) 2 &apos;Malara Cases 156.»(1912) 15 N. L. R. 466.
“ (1918) 20 N. L. R. 301.
24 (1909) 1 Cur. L. R. 224.
» (1911) 14 N. L. R. 90.
( 263 )
t
case of lost possession. Possession is a condition precedent. The 191**remedy by way of possessory suit given by Ordinance No. 22 ofChmatitteke
1871 has abolished all Roman-Dutch law remedies. The Publi- *• Fernandocian action was not introduced into Ceylon. Walter Pereira303. The equitable remedy is given only to a vendee who hastaken the precaution of obtaining possession from his vendor.
When he has failed to do so, a subsequent purchaser gets good title.
Bawa, K.C., in reply.
Our. adv. vult.
December 19, 1919. Bertram C.J.—
The case under consideration in this appeal is that of a person whopurchases property from a vendor who is not at the time entitled to it,but who subsequently acquires a title to the land which he purportsto have sold. The principle of the Roman-Dutch law on this ques-tion is enunciated by Yoet at the commencement of his chapter,“ De Exceptions Rei Venditce et Traditffi:—
“ Corifirmato iure alienantia, ius quoque eius, in quern alienatioinitio inspecto non iure facta erat, primo dominii per venditorempriutum queesiti momento confirmatum fuit, adeoque dominiumex eo tempore emtori primo adiectum, sine facto aut voluntateeius auferri non potuit. ”l
This is entirely in accord with English law on the subject, whichis that a person who sells property is estopped from disputing thetitle of his vendee, and that when he subsequently acquires a title,that title passes to his vendee. As it is put in the leading case of Doev. Oliver,2 “ the interest when it accrues feeds the estoppel. ” Cf.Rawlin’s case,’ in which it was held that “ if a man leased land inwhich he had nothing, and afterwards bought the land, such leasewould be good against him by conclusion, but nothing in interest tillhe bought the land; but as soon as he bought the land, it wouldbecome a lease in interest. ”
The French law on the subject is the same. The Code CivilArt 1599, departing from the Roman law, enacted :"La vente
d’une chose faite par un non-proprietaire est nulle. ” But jurispru-dence has since decided that this nullity is relative only, and ceasesas soon as the vendee acquires the property in the thing sold.
In this Colony the principle enunciated by Voet seems to havebeen viewed with a certain unexplained suspicion, and varioussuggestions have been made from time to time in the authorities in
1 “ Upon the confirmation of the title of a transferor, the title of the transferee&apos;though in its inception invalid, was also confirmed from the first moment of theacquisition of the dominium by his vendor. Accordingly, from that time the dominiumaccrued to the original purchaser, and he could not be divested of it except by hisown act or will.”
12 Smith’s Leading Cases, 11th edition, 724.3 4 Coke 33.
21/22( 264 )
1919.
Bertram
c.<r.
Qunatillekev. Fernando
our books with a view to nullifying its effect or limiting its applica-tion. These suggestions are as follows: —
That this principle was abrogated by the enactment of Ordin-ance No. 7 of 1840- (See per Hutchinson C.J. in Carolis v. Jamis;1per Middleton J. in Alvie v. Fernando;i 2 per Lascelles C.J. andDe Sampayo J. in Mohammed Bhoy v. Lebbe Marikar; 3 and WoodBenton C.J. in Wdkita v. Munesinghe.*)
That it is only available as a defence, and cannot be made thefoundation of an action. (See per Lascelles C.J. in MohammedBhoy v. Lebbe Marikar 3 and per Wood Benton C.J. in Wakista v.Munasinghe.*)
That, even if it can be made the foundation of an action, it canonly be asserted by a person who has been in possession and for therecovery of a possession previously lost. (See judgment of theDistrict Judge in this case.)
My opinion is that there is no foundation for any of these sugges-tions. In the first place, with regard to the suggestion that theprinciple is abrogated by Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, the process underconsideration, namely, the conferment upon an existing deed ofefficacy which it did not previously possess, is not a “ sale, purchase,assignment, or mortgage, ” nor is it a “ promise, bargain, contract,or agreement for effecting any such object, or for establishing anysecurity, interest, or encumbrance. ” It is, therefore, not within thewords of the Ordinance. I agree with the views expressed by mybrothers Shaw and Ennis in the case of Rajapaksa v. Fernando 3that the Ordinance does not apply to a case of title passing byoperation of law. I may remark, incidentally, that the Statute ofFrauds, which is in force in England, and which in this particular&apos; was on the same general lines as Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, has neverbeen understood in any way to impair the operation of the corre-sponding principle of English law enunciated in Doe v. Oliver.*
In the second place, with regard to the suggestion that that prin-ciple can only be available as a means of defence, and cannot bemade the foundation of an action, this appears to be derived froman imperfect examination of the title of the chapter under considera-tion. An examination of the terms of the whole chapter and of thetext of the Title on which it comments discloses that it is laid downin express terms that the principle may be asserted both by way ofan exception and by way of an action. See the passage quoted fromJulian in the Digest, XXL, iii., 2: “ Iulianus ait aequius essepriorem te tueri, quia et si ipse Titius fundum a te peteret, exceptionesummoveretur et si ipse Titius eum possideret, Publiciana peteres.
The third suggested qualification, namely, that the principle canonly be asserted by a person who has been in possession and for the
i (1909) 1 Cur. L. R. 224.* (1913) 2 Matdra Cases 156.
 (1911) 14 N. L. R. 90.3 (1918) 20 N. L. R. 301.
 (1912) 15 N. L. R. 466.• 2 Smith&apos;s Leading Cases 11th ed., 724.
( 265 )
recovery of a lost possession, appears to have been made for the firsttime by the learned District &apos;Judge in this case. It must be concededthat at first sight there is considerable apparent support for thissuggestion in the Roman and Roman-Dutch authorities- Theseauthorities indicate that when a purchaser sues to enforce theprinciple in question, his appropriate action is the Publication action.Now it is the essence of this action that it is brought for the recoveryof a lost possession. Its basis&apos; is a fictitious usucaption. ThePraetor on equitable grounds, pretended that a period of usucaption,which was not complete, had in fact been completed. See Gaius,Inst. IV., v., 36: “ Datur autem haec actio (Publiciana) ei qui exjusta causa traditam sibi rem nondum usucepit eamque amissa pos-sessions petit. Nam quia non potest earn EX JURE QU1RITIUMSUAM ESSE intendere, fingitur rem usucepisse.” But for thispurpose there must have been either actual delivery of possession,or something which can be treated as its equivalent. See Voet,VI., ii., 6: " Proinde neclocum haec actio invenit ..
in its qua neque vere neque ficte sunt traditacum utique
usucapiendi potestas in hac actione necesaria sit, nec sine possea-sionis acquisitione ea procedat, aut habeat initio. Possession wasessential for this action, but any pqssession was enough, eventhough it were for a moment of time. “ Suffecerit autem vel mementopossedise, ut hac actione liceat expern ” (ibid.) The importanceof traditio, whether asserted in attack or defence, is emphasizedin all the texts. It may also be noted that Voet’s summary of thechapter under consideration, XXI., iii., commences with the words;“ Si is, cui res aliena vendita et tradita possessionem amiseret.” Allthis, however, is illusory. The basis of this equitable doctrineis not possession, but natural equity. See Digest, XXI., ii., 17.:“ Improbe enim rem a se distractam evincere conatur.” Gf. ZoesiusXXI., iii.: “ Quia nemo facto suo potest contravenire. ” See alsoHuber; Pralectiones, XXI., iii., “ Nec suum factum alio iure
subvertere possit. ”
What, then, is the meaning of the persistent references to deliveryand to possession in the texts? The explanation would appear tobe a simple one. The case which the authorities are considering isthe ordinary case of a fully completed transaction. < But under theBoman law no title passes upon a sale except by actual delivery tothe purchaser. See 20 C. de pact. (2, 3) Diocletian “ Traditionibuset .usucapionibus dominia rerum, non nudis pactis transferuntur.This is no longer the law. Traditio, whether actual or symbolic, isno longer necessary for the consummation of a sale of immovableproperty, and has been replaced by the delivery of the deed. SeeAppuhamy v. Appuhamy,1 where the whole subject is lucidlyexplained. The same protection, therefore, which the Roman lawgave to a person who had completed his title by possession, our own i
1919*
Bbbtbuc
OX
Qunatilleke
o. Fernando
i (1880) 3 S. 0. 0. 61.
( 266 )
1919.
Bertram
C.J.
Qunatilleke«. Fernando
law will give to a person who has completed his title by securingthe delivery*&apos; of a deed. The Publician action, as the law thenstood, was the appropriate form of action for the purpose of givingeffect to the right which the law recognized. The fact that thisaction was based upon a fictitious usucaption, and therefore pre-supposed a possession, however short, was an accidental circum-stance. This form of action, if it now existed, would no longerbe appropriate for the purpose of asserting that right, as the lawnow stands. But we are no longer tied to forms of action. If thelaw recognizes a right, it will provide its own forms for enforcing it.
I may remark, incidentally, that it .is a mistake to suppose thatin the case under consideration (t&apos;.e., the case of a person who sellsland not his own and subsequently acquires title) the Roman lawwill not protect a purchaser unless he has obtained possession.There is express authority to the contrary. The Actio Publicianais no doubt not appropriate, but the purchaser in such a case canavail himself of the Actio Empti. See Digest, XIX., i., 46: “ Siquis alienam rem vendiderit et medio tempore heres domino rei exsti-terit, cogitur implere venditionem. ” See also the discussion of thispassage in Voet, XIX., i., 14.