
( 128 )
1806.July 1.
GUN AH AMI v. ARNOLIS HAMI.
P. C., Galle, 16,926.
Maintenance—Ordinance No. 19 of 1889—Res judicata—Rejection of
evidence—Dismissal of former applications for maintenance—Admission that applicant is the wife of respondent.
The question of paternity once tried and determined in a prose-cution under the Ordinance No. 19 of 1889 could not be litigated asecond time ; but the refusal of an order for maintenance under theabove Ordinance against a husband for deserting his wife, on theground that it had not been proved that he had deserted, or thatthere was no proof that he had sufficient means, would not be a barto a subsequent .application in respect of a subsequent desertion,or in case the husband subsequently acquired means.
Where the Magistrate declined to receive in evidence for thedefence certain cases which had the eSect of res judicata, and whichhad been brought by the respondent against the appellant and beendismissed, and made an order against the appellant under section3 of the Ordinance because the appellant admitted the respondentto be his wife—Held, that the appellant ought to have an oppor-tunity of showing what was decided in the previous cases, whichmight or might not afford reason for refusing the present application.
HE appellant in this case was the respondent in a prosecution
under the Ordinance No. 19 of 1889, wherein the applicant,who is the wife of the respondent, applied for maintenance of herchild. The respondent did not deny that the applicant was hiswife, but by way of defence stated that she had previous to thismade three similar applications, which were dismissed, and whichhad the effect of res judicata.
The Police Magistrate refused to admit in evidence the previouscases, as the respondent admitted the applicant to be his wife, andmade an order against the respondent under section 3 of. theOrdinance.
The respondent appealed.
H. Jayawardena, for respondent, appellant.
1st July, 1895. Bonser, C.J.—
In this case the appellant was ordered to pay a monthly sumfor the maintenance of the respondent, who alleged that she washis wife. The order was made under section 3 of Ordinance No.19 of 1889. The appellant, by way of defence, stated that threeprevious applications of this kind by the respondent had beenmade and dismissed, but, as he appears to have admitted that therespondent was his wife, the Police Magistrate seems to havedeclined to receive evidence of the former eases, and made theorder in appeal.