
< H8 )
1902.
July 20.
GUNASEKEBA v. ABUBAKEB.
D. C., Gallo, 6,267.
Curator—*0ivil Procedure Code, es. 476 and 692—Action by minor.
An action by a minor is not well brought if brought in the name otthe ourator.
Before suing, the curator should obtain the authority of the Court to-institute an action as the next friend of the minor and in the name ofthe minor.
HIS was an action for a declaration of title- to certain shares of
certain lands bought by two plaintiffs, the first of whomwas described in the title of the suit as “ George AbeyewardenaGunasekera of Galupiyadde, curator of the estate of the minorGeorge Dias Abeyesinghe of Colombo.” The prayer was that thesaid George Dias Abeyesinghe be declared entitled to 47/72 parts. &c.,and the second plaintiff to 25/72 parts, &c.
The issues raised on the pleadings and agreed to were: (1) Canthe first plaintiff maintain this action? and (2) Is the defendant inthe wrongful and forcible possession of the house and soil claimed?
The District Judge (Mr. J. D. Mason) held that thie first plaintiffcould not proceed with the action.
The plaintiffs appealed. The case came on for argument on 28tbApril, 1902, and it was ordered to be listed before three. Judges.
Dornhorst (with Sampayo), for appellants.
Bawa for respondent.
Cur. adv. vult.
20th July, 1902. Mon&apos;creiff, A.C.J.—
The question is whether the plaintiff, suing as ourator of a minor,can maintain this action. It is urged that, in view of section 476 ofthe Civil Procedure Code, he can only do so when the action is insti-tuted in the minor’s name, and he has been appointed and isdesignated in the plaint the next friend of the minor. I have hadthe advantage of learning the views of my brothers, and I agreethat the objection is fatal. If section 582 of the Code had stood-alone, I should have thought otherwise, but I find it impossible todisregard the positive provisions of sections 476-480..1 agree to
the order proposed by my brothers.
Wendt, J.—
The present action was brought by two plaintiffs. The first ofthem was &apos;described as George Abeyewardena Gunasekera, curatorof the estate of the minor George Dias Abeyesinghe, and the