
( 267 )
Present: Be Sampayo and Schneider JJ.HAYLEY & KENNY t>. KUDHOOS.302—D. C. Colombo* 3,120.Insurance—C.i.f. Contract-—Indent for goods from England—No separatepolicy of insurance—Arrival of goods—Tender of goods, but nopolicy of insurance—Is defendant bound to accept goods!
The plaintiffs anddefendantentered intoA c.i.f. contract,
whereby the plaintiffsagreed toindent forcertain goods from
England for the defendant. Thegoods dulyarrived in Colombo,
and- were tenderedto &apos; the defendant,butno policy ofinsurance
was tendered. The. defendant failed to take delivery, but didnot state the absence of a policy of insurance as a ground of"refusal.
Held, that the defendant was not bound to accept the goodB.
In accordance with the ordinary incidents of a c.i.f. contract,&apos;the plaintiffswerebound- to effect aseparate insuranceover" the
goods ordered by thedefendant,and tenderto him the policy
of insurance before they sought to enforce the contract against him.
The tenderof acertificate of insuranceinstead of apolicy of
insurance isnota compliance withtherequirementsof c.i.f.
contract.
1922;
( 268 )
1888.
Hayley tbKenny v.Kudhooe
f |1HE facts are set out in the judgment.
Drieberg, K.C. (with him Hayley), for plaintiffs, appellants.
Samaravxckreme (with him F. H. B. Koch and Canakeratne), fordefendant, respondent.
Gut. adv. vult.
December 21, 1922^ Dm Sampayo d-—
I&apos;his case involves a question as to the rights and obligationsarising out of a contract entered into by the defendant with theplaintiffs, Messrs. Hayley & Kenny, on April 19, 1920. The plaintiffs. are a firm of merchants, and part of their business is to indentfor goods from England and elsewhere in Europe on the orders oflocal traders. The defendant is a hardware merchant, carrying on-business in the Pettah of . Colombo. The contract is contained inthe document marked A, which is in the printed indent form ofthe plaintiffs, with the description of the goods .and certain otherparticulars written at the bottom. As much of the argument onthe appeal related to the construction of this document, it is con-venient to quote it in full. It is as follows: -—
Inbent fob c.i.f. Impobt Business.
I /we, theundersigned, I.L. Abdul Kudhoos, hereby request
Messrs. Hayley & Kenny to order and import for my/our accountand risk the whole or any part of the goods mentioned herein-after at the prices and on the terms noted below.
 Price to include cost, freight, and insurance, but duty and .ah
landing and Customs charges to be- paid by the indentor. Pay-ment cash in Colombo in Ceylon &apos;currency on presentation ofshippingdocuments, orshould such documentsbedelayed,
paymentto be made on the day . goods arriveinColombo.
Messrs.Hayley & Kennyare not responsible . forlosssustained
through the late arrival of documents.
 For goods sold in sterling currency the current rate of exchange
on the day of payment will be taken.
Should I/we fai/ to pay for the goods as arranged above, Messrs.
Hayley A Kenny may land, clear, and store the goods at my/ourexpense and risk, and may at any time thereafter and withoutonly special notice to me/us sell the goods on my /our accountand risk, either.by auction or by private sale, and I/we agree tomake good tb them immediately any loss and expenses incurredthereby, and also to pay them – in addition 3 per cent, re salecommission and j per cent, re sale brokerage.
 Messrs. Hayley & Kenny are not responsible for late or non-
shipment of goods in consequence of war, accidents, or lossduring sea and/or land transport, ice blockades, quarantines,strikes, bankruptcy, fire at manufacturer&apos;s works, breakdownof machinery, or other causes of force, majeure.
1988.
( 260 )
I/we agree that we will not make any claim for late shipment ifsame be only two weeks after the specified time. The dateof the bill of lading will be accepted by me/us as conclusiveevidence of&apos; the date of shipment without ,further proof beingrequired. If goods were readv for shipment within contracttime,were shut out or have to wait for the steamer, such
goods to be shipped by the first available steamer, and I/weagree to accept them without making a&apos; claim. Should thegoods be shipped before the time stipulated, I/we agree to payfor them as arranged above, but with an allowance for interestat the rate of 6 per cent, per annum for the time shipped tooearly.
 The weight of the goods as specified in the shipper’s invoice
shall be accepted by me/us as the correct weight thereof, andthe goods shall be paid for on that basis, any loss in weight beingborne by me/us.
 Messrs. Hayley 4. Kenny or their agents are to&apos; effect marine
insurance F. P. A. on the said goods with some good InsuranceCo., the solvency of which they shall, however, not be deemedto guarantee for the full invoice value of the said goods (unlessotherwise agreed inwriting),otherwise all goodsshallbe at
my/our sole risk from the time when same shall be put onboard ship at theport from which shipmentisfirstmade,
and Messrs. Hayley A Kenny shall be in no way responsibletherefor:
All complaints regarding the goods to be made in writing within. seven days from&apos; arrival of the goods.
Each shipment and/or separate item under this order to be
separate contract.
Messrs. Hayley & Kenny are not responsibleforanyerrors
caused by mutilated or incorrectly interpreted telegrams.
Disputes of whatevernature -arising out of thiscontractto be
referred to the arbitration of two gentlemen from the list ofsurveyors and arbitrators nominated by the Ceylon Chamberof Commerce, one to be chosen by each party, whose decisionI/we agree to accept as binding and final, but should the twoarbitrators be unable to .agree, they shall refer the case to anumpire, .whosedecision shall befinalandbinding uponboth
parties. If bymutualagreementonlyonearbitrator is chosen,
his decision shall be final and binding upon both parties.
In case I/we fail to nominate an arbitrator within three days fromthe time, I/we have been requested by Messrs. Hayley A Kennyin writing to do so,. Messrs. Hayley A ‘ Kenny are -at libertyto nominate an arbitrator for me/us, and I/we agree to accepthis decision on my /our behalf.
Arbitrator’s fees areto beborne bythepartyagainst whomthe
derision is given.
The acceptance of this order shall be made known to me/us byMessrs. Hayley A .Kenny within …. days from thedate hpreof, failing which, this order shall be- deemed cancelled.•Notice of acceptance shall be taken as sufficient if sent by postto my /our place of business.
Messrs. Hayley A Kenny shall be entitled to receive from me/usa commission of …. . per cent. 1 on the full invoice- amount, whilsttheirEuropeanor otherrepresentativeshave
to find their remuneration on the selling prices .of the goods,
Db BampayoJ.
Hayley <tKenny e.Kudhoog
( 270 )
m
Pb SasspayoJ.
HayleyKenny v.
Kudnoos
We hereby bind ourselves jointly and severally to perform the■ several conditions and covenants hereinbefore contained.
Anything written in the vernacular, except a plain signature, shallvbe null and Void.
I/we undertake to give Messrs. Hayley A Kenny full instructionsas to get-up, stamping, marking, packing, Ac., of the goods,immediately after acceptance of the order, but should I/we faitto do- so, Messrs.. Hayley k Kenny are at liberty to use theirrn discretion in these matters.
(Sgd.) I. Li. Abdul Kudboos.
From William Tell Brand.
112} Twelve and a half tons galvanized plain sheets, sizes as belowat seventy-three pounds four shillings.
j£73. 4s. per ton c.i.f., Ac.
8 tons 8 X 8 = 26 gauge.
4 tons 2 x 8 = 26 do.
} ton 2} x 8 = 26 do.
12}
Shipment : As soon as possible.
Terms: Payment in cash before delivery, or at seller&apos;s option byapproved pro-notes at 90 days’ sight at ruling rate of bank,interest. -’&apos;
]
Mark :
(Sgd.)- T. Mubugesu.
Accepted 20/4/20.
Per pro Hayley A Kenny,.
(Sgd.) —-
The plaintiffs allege that the -goods arrived at Colombo on orabout October 13, 1920, and were duly tendered to the defendant,and that the defendant in breach of – his contract failed to takedelivery of and.pay for the same, and they claim Bs. 7,332.57 beingsthe difference between the contract price and the amount realizedwhen they were sold by auction at the defendant’s risk, togetherwith a certain sum as interest.. The defendant pleaded, inter aha,that the plaintiffs could not and did not tender an effective policyof insurance covering the galvanized sheets ordered by him, andhe was, therefore not bound to accept the goods. The DistrictJudge upheld this ground of defence, and dismissed the actionwith costs, and the plaintiffs have appealed.
It is admitted that no policy of insurance was tendered to thedefendant, and that the insurance which the plaintiffs effectedcovered not alone the goods. in question, but also other goods