
( 236 )
1898.
December 16.
He Estate of MARGARET WERNHAM.
D. C., Kandy, 1,979.
Stamp Ordinance, No. 3 of 1896—Executor&apos;s inventory in testamentary pro-
ceeding—Civil Procedure Code, s.733—Affidavit verifying such inventory—Stamp duty thereon—Interpretation of Ordinance.
Per Bonseb, C.J., and Lawbie, J. (dissentients Wjthebs, J.).—Anaffidavit in support of an intermediate account filed by an executorunder section 733 of the Civil Procedure Code is not chargeable withstamp duty under the Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, section 5 (schedule B,part III.).
In interpreting an Ordinance imposing burdens on the subject, itmust be construed favourably to the subject; and optima est legisinterpres consuetudo.
HE facts relevant to this appeal, which came on for argument
on 8th November, 1898, appear in the following judgmentspronounced on the 16t:h December, 1898.
Van Langenberg, for the administrator, appellant.
Loos, C. C., for the Attorney-General.
Bonser, C.J.—
In this case, the District Judge of Kandy has required the affi-davits verifying respectively an executor’s inventory of the estateof his testator and an intermediate account filed by an executorunder section 733 of the Civil Procedure Code to be stamped withan ad valorem duty, as being “ affidavits in a testamentary pro-ceeding, ’ ’ and chargeable with duty under part IH. of the scheduleto the Stamp Ordinance, 1890. It was contended by Mr. VanLangenberg that the verification on oath of the correctness of theinventory required by section 538 of the Civil Procedure Code isnot an affidavit. But I am clearly of opinion that it is. The onlyquestion in both cases is whether these affidavits are chargeablewith stamp duty.
Now, the first observation which I would make is that it hasnever been suggested that these documents were chargeable withduty until the question w&apos;as raised by the District Judge of Kandyin the present case. I have ascertained by inquiry that it hasbeen the practice of the two principal District Courts of theIsland—the Courts of Colombo and Kandy—ever since the year1841, when stamp duties were first imposed on legal proceedings,to treat these affidavits as not being chargeable with duty, and itmay safely be assumed that the practice of these Courts was alsothe practice of the other Courts of the Island.