
( 148 )
June S3.
1900.
HENDRIK KUEE v. SAI3U MARIKAR.D. G., Puttalam, 1,326.
Procedure—Bight of District Judge, after both parties had closed their case, tocall ex mero motu a witness not cited by the parties—Costs.
It is competent to the District Court, after both parties have closedtheir case, to call of its own motion a witness not cited by the partiesand inform itself on any relevant point that required&apos; elucidation.
It is right as a general rule that, when a plaintiff brings his action ina class higher than that in which the result shows that he ought to havebrought it and puts the defendant to unnecessary expense, such expenseshould be set off against costs payable by the defendant to the plaintiff.
HIS action was instituted for the recovery of Rs. 4,368.20 as
damages consequent upon defendants wrongfully seizing(by means of a writ of injunction obtained in case No. 962 of theDistrict Court of Puttalam, which they had brought against thepresent plaintiff) 335 logs of ebony as timber belonging to them,and keeping it under seizure so long that it deteriorated in valueto the extent of the amount claimed.
The defendants pleaded (1) that the 11th section of the Ordi-nance No. 22 of 1871 barred plaintiff’s claim; (2) that in caseNo. 962 the question of damages was considered and- disposed of,and the judgment pronounced thereon was res judicata; and (3)that the timber had not deteriorated in value to the extent ofRs. 4,368.20 or any part thereof.
The District Judge overruled the plea of prescription, as pre-scription could not run during the pendency of the injunction,and held that the present claim could not have been includedin the claim made by the present plaintiff in his answer in caseNo. 962, and the judgment thereon was not res judicata. And onthe merits, after the plaintiffs and defendants had closed theirrespectve cases, the Court desiring to hear the evidence of anofficer of the Forest Department, in whose custody the timberseized was admittedly left, called ex mero motu Mr. F. O. Fel-singer. the Forest Ranger of Puttalam, and examined him as awitness on the question of weight and value of the timber. TheCourt then found “ that the plaintiff has sustained a loss of not“ less than Rs. 20 a ton by reason of thef wrongful detention of“ the timber. Taking it at 25 tons, this would amount to Rs. 500.‘‘ Interest at nine per cent, for three years on the total value of“ the timber, Rs. 337.50. Depot ground rent at Rs. 2.50 per men-“ sem for three years, Rs. 40. Total Rs. 927.50;—for which amount“ I give judgment in plaintiff’s favour with costs in that class (4).”
Defendants appealed.