
( 80 )
mi.
[Full Bench.]
Present: Bertram C.J. and Ennis and Do Sampayo JJ.HENDRICK SINGHO v. KALANIS APPU el al.
56—D. C. Kalutara, 9,4£$>
Civil Procedure Code, 8$. 237, 238,239-seizure not registered—Sale byjudgment-debtor after Fiscal e sale and before issue of Fiscal1 sconveyance—Prior registration of conveyance in favour of privatealienee—Does section 289 override the provisions of s. 238 ?—back.
Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code does not override theprovisions of section 238; the title of the purchaser at the Fiscal’ssale does not, on the issue of the Fisoars conveyance, prevail overany intermediate alienation by the executionrdebtor, unless theFiscal’s seizure was registered.,
, “ If the seizure is not registered, the necessary implication ofsection 238 is that a bona fide private alienee is statim securas. -Section 289, as regards relation back, must be read in the light ofsection 238, and its operation should not be extended to a casewhere the seizure has not been registered.
T^HE plaintiff, respondent, instituted this action for declarationof title to lot 1 of a land called Imbalahena, which he claimedby virtue of a purchase from one Edoris. The conveyance in favourof plaintiff was executed in January, 1920, and registered in thesame month.
The land was seized under a writ against Edoris in 1913, but theseizure was not registered. At a Fiscal’s sale in 1913, the firstdefendant became purchaser, but he obtained no Fiscal’s convey-ance till Ootober, 1920. The Fiscal’s transfer was also registeredin October, 1920.
The following issues were framed :—
The seizure not having been registered, does plaintiff’s deedgive priority over the Fiscal’s transfer ?
Defendant having no Fiscal’s transfer at date of institution
of action, can he plead the benefit of it now ?
The District Judge entered judgment for the • plaintiff, anddefendants appealed.
E. W. Jayawardene (with him MahvMva)^ for appellant. Byvirtue of section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code, Fiscal’s conveyancedivests the judgment-debtor of the title as from the date of the sale.Aserappa v. Werdtunga} If he be so divested of his title, he cannot
H19li14N.L.417.
( 81 )
Bell again to a third party. Under section 287Code the Court is bound to order delivery
purchaser. Section 291 enacts that the person in poqpesaion shallnot waste it* Then a fortiori he cannot sell it. Under the old lawall sales after seizure?were void. Section 236 shakes alienation oimovable property af&r seizure absolutely void. In the case ofimmovable propertymode of seizure is prescribed by seotion 237,
i.e., by a prohibitory notice. Thisnotioeisnot only to the judgment-debtor, but to all those receiving the property from him by purchase,gift, or otherwise. Notice is proclaimed by beat of tom-tom or otherme&ns. Further, it provides for registration on payment of a fee offifty cents. The Registration Ordinance itself does not requireseizures to be registered. The important point under seotion 237is, the publication of tho prohibitory notice. Registration is left tothe option of the decree-holder