
( 70 )
1900.
HORSFALL v. MARTIN.June S3.
C. R., Colombo, 3.
Action for goods sold and delivered on three months&apos; credit—Money due upon anunwritten agreement—Prescription—Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, ss. 8, 9.Though money due for goods sold and delivered on three months’credit may be money due upon an unwritten promise, yet the actionbrought for the reocvery of it falls under section 9 of the OrdinanceNo. 22 of 1871, and as such is prescribed within one year after the debtbecame due.
HIS was an appeal from an order of the Commissioner
rejecting the plaint tendered by the plaintiffs proctor, asthe claim therein mentioned appeared to be prescribed.
The plaint set out that in the month of May, 1898, M. M. B. &Co., whose liquidator was plaintiff, sold and delivered to thedefendant certain goods on the agreement that the defendantshould pay the price within three months from the date of thesale and delivery. The due date of payment was not specified.It appeared to fall in August, 1898. The action was brought onthe 18th April, 1900.
After the Commissioner had rejected the plaint, plaintiff’sproctor submitted that the plaintiff was suing, not for goods soldand delivered, but on an unwritten agreement.
The Commissioner was “ unable to distinguish this action froman action for goods sold and delivered.”
Plaintiff appealed.
Elliott, for appellant.—This is not an action within the scope ofsection 9 of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. If it were so, it would beprescribed in one year. But the value of the goods was payableon an unwritten agreement, namely, within three months fromthe date of the sale. Hence, the action falls within section 8, andis not prescribed within three years from the date of the causeof the action. [Moncreiff, J.—But why did the Legislature usethe words “ in respect of any goods sold ” in section 9?] Section9 was not meant to limit the operation of section 8, which iscomplete in itself as to claims for money due upon an unwrittenpromise.
3rd July, 1900. Moncreiff, J.—
The appellant, the liquidator of Messrs. Murdoch, Miller, &Branwell, filed a paint in the Court of Requests of Colombo forthe price of goods sold and delivered to the defendant by Messrs.