
( 432 )
1914.
The Colonial Court of Admiralty in PrizePresent: Wood Benton C.J. and P.
IN PBIZE ss. “ BEICHENFELS.”
Cause No, 5.
Alien enemy—Locus standi in Prize proceedings.
An alienenemy hasno locusstandiin Prize proceedings, unless
he is in aposition torelyuponsomeground which exempted him
from the general disability of alien enemies in this respect.
41 An alienmay show,if hecan,that,although an alien, he is not
an enemy,or that, althoughan enemy,his locus standi has in some
way been recognized by the Sovereign. It is in such cases as these,and in such cases alone, that under the new procedure, as underthe old, he can put forward before the Court the grounds of hisclaim."
fjp HE facts appear from the judgment.
The Hon. Mr. Anton Bertram, K,G.t A.-G., and Obeyesekeret C.C.,for the Crown.
Allan Driebergt for the claimants.
October 23, 1914. Wood Benton C.J. and P.—
On the motion by the Attorney-General for the first healing ofthe above cause, Mr. Allan Drieberg, as counsel on behalf of theDeutsches Kohlen Depot G. M. B. H., who are the alleged ownersof 4,354 tons of coal forming part of the cargo of the ReichenfeUat the time of her capture, applied for the entry of his appearancein these proceedings. This application was opposed by the Attorney-General on the ground that the Deutsches Kohlen Depot are alienenemies, and have, therefore, no locus standi in this Court. Thiscontention raises an interesting point of law, which was fully andably ragued before me on both sides. I have no doubt but thatthe Attorney-General&apos;s argument is entitled to prevail. The samepoint has recently been considered by the Prize Court in Englandin two eases: the Chile and the Marie Glaeser. In the former ofthese cases, Sir Samuel Evans expressed, without directly decidingthe matter, a strong opinion against the right of an alien enemy toappear in Prize proceedings, unless he was in a position to relyupon some ground which exempted him from the general disabilityof alien enemies in this respect. In the latter case this obiter dictumassumed the form of a direct decision in the same sense.
( 438 )
The authorities, when carefully looked into, &apos;establish beyond 1814.all question the soundness of the conclusion at which, the learned WoODPresident of the Prise Court in England has thus arrived. The Rhnton OJT-Deutsches Kohlen Dep6t is admittedly a company incorporatedin Germany and under German law, and the present case has been in Fr£?eargued on the assumption that it possesses no commercial domicil ^/af***"in this country. In these circumstances, has it any locus standihere? Mr. Allan Drieberg strenuously argued that this questionshould be answered in the affirmative; in the first place, becausethe policy of the law in regard to alien enemies has been modifiedby recent international treaties, such as The Hague Convention,while the new Prize Buies (see Order KL, r. 5) themselves recognizethe status of aliens; and, in the second place, because the Crownhad itself made his clients a party to the proceedings by serving onthem a notice of the motion for the appraisement and sale of thecargo under the rule 98 of the old rules. Before dealing with thesecontentions, I may point out the basis of .the disability with whichwe are here concerned.
The Maritime Jurisprudence of England, in common with thatof most other civilized countries, has from the earliest times pro-hibited all trading with a public enemy, unless with the permissionof the Sovereign.
“In&apos;my opinion, " said Lord Stowell (then Sir William Scott)in The Hoop, 1 " no principle ought to be held more sacred than thatthis intercourse cannot subsist on any other footing than that ofthe direct permission of the State. Who can be insensible to theconsequences that might follow if every person in time of war had aright to carry on a commercial intercourse with the enemy, andunder colour of that had the means of carrying on any other speciesof intercourse he might think fit? The inconvenience to .the publicmight be extreme; and where is the inconvenience on the otherside that the merchant should be compelled in such a situation ofthe two countries to carry on his trade between them (if necessary)under the eye and control of the government charged with the careof the public, safety? ”
This principle is not one of mere ephemeral importance evolvedduring the Napoleonic wars, and now invested only with historicalinterest. . It rests upon broad and permanent grounds of publicpolicy, and since the time of Lord Stowell it has been re-assertedand enforced whenever an occasion for its application arose. Itholds as prominent and as firm a place in the Prize cases decidedduring the Crimean war and during the war between Englandand the old South African Eepublics as it. did, at the end of theeighteenth and in the early part of the nineteenth centuries (seeThe Panaja Drap aniotisa 2 and Janson v. Dnefontein Consolidated
1 (1799) Roacoe &apos;a English Prize Cases 106.
338 (1857) 2 Roscoe&apos;s English Prize Cases 660.
( 434 )
1914. Gold Mines 1). Lord Stowell, in the judgment from which I haveWoodjust cited, proceeds .to show that, as therelation existing between
Bentos- C.J. two belligerent countries is consistent byits very nature with the
,&apos; continuance of commerce between them, it is equally inconsistent
In Prize ^ith the existence of any right to sustain any contract by an appealfds ” to^the tribunals of the one country on the part of the subjects of
the other.