
( 8»6 )
Present : De Sampayo J.
In re an Application under Ordinance No. 20 of 1919
against Cantlay,
Vexatious Actions Ordinance, No. SO of 1919—Ability to pay costs ofunsuccessful actions—Numberofactions—Possiblecause of
actions.
In an application by the Attorney-General under section 9 (1)of the Vexatius Actions Ordinance, No. 20 of 1919, for an orderthat no civil legal proceedings shall be instituted by the respondentsin any Court unless they obtain leave of the Supreme Court, thefact that respondents have paid the costs of various unsuccessfulactions is not a ground for refusing the application, if thelitigation was in fact vexatious.
“ Nor is the question dependent on the number of actionsinstituted, nor upon any consideration whether there may nothave been possible cause of action in some of the cases. What _we have to look at is the general character and result of thenumber of actions brought by the respondents.’*
HR facts are set out in the judgment.Illangakoon, C.C., for the applicant.
B. Jayatilleke, for the respondents.
1988.
In re onApplicationagainstCantlay
 ( 866 )
May 28, 1921. Db Sampayo J.—-
This is an application by the Attorney-General under section 2(1) oi the Vexatious Actions Ordinance, No. 20 of 1919, for an orderthat no oivil legal proceedings shall be instituted by the respondentshi any Court unless they obtain leave of the Supreme Court andsatisfy the Court that such legal proceedings are not an abuse ofthe process of Court, and that there are primd facie grounds forsuch proceedings. Section 2 (1) of the Ordinance enacts as follows: —
" It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to apply to theSupreme Court or a Judge thereof for an order under this-Ordinanoe, and if he satisfies feuoh Court or Judge thatany person habitually and persistently instituted vexatiouscivil legal proceedings in any Court, and whether againstthe same person or against different persons, such Courtor Judge may, after hearing such person or giving himan opportunity of being heard after assigning counselin case such person is unable on account of poverty toretain counsel, order that no civil legal proceeding shallbe instituted by that person in any Court unless heobtains the leave of the Supreme Court or a Judge thereof,and satisfies the Court or Judge that such legal proceedingis. not an abuse of the process of the Court, and that thereis primd facie ground for such proceeding.*&apos;
Hie first respondent, Mrs. Laura Bose Cantlay, is the motherof the second and the third respondents, and was, at all timesrelevant to this application, their attorney in Ceylon. The res-pondents were entitled to certain undivided shares of and in anestate known as Mipitiyakande estate, situated in the districtof Kegalla, which was the subject of a partition action No. 3,185in the District Court of Kegalla. By deed No. 4,594 dated Decem-ber 9, 1911, the respondents and one Charles Francis Cantlay,who was another son of the first respondent and a shareholder inthe scud estate, agreed to sell and convey their undivided sharesto G. A. H. Vanderspar and E. H. A. Vanderspar for a sum of£7,500 sterling, and with a view of enabling them to make a validsale they further agreed that they would move to withdraw thesaid partition action No. 3,135 or join in any such motion or appli-cation. The respondents having failed to carry out the saidagreement No. 4,594, Messrs. Vanderspar on September 11, 1912,instituted action No. 34,263 of the District Court of Colomboagainst the respondents to compel specific performance of thesaid agreement. Meanwhile, • decree had been entered in thepartition action, whereby a. specific portion of the said estate wasallotted to the first respondent, and another specific portion to thesecond and third respondents and the said Charles Francis Cantlay,and a sum of Bs. 5,333.89 had been awarded as compensation to
( )the first respondent and a sum of Bs. 2.666.94 to the second and lMt&apos; third respondents and the said Charles Francis Cantlay. The ^ sakfayofirst respondent drew the whole of the said sum of Bs. 5,888.89,and the second and third respondents drew a sum of Bs. 1,777.96 jnrembeing their proportionate share of the said sum of Bs. 2,666.94.AppKoeMon
agtoinsi
In the said action No. 84,263 the District Judge decreed specific Canilayperformance requiring the respondents to transfer to Messrs.
Vanderspar the divided portions of the estate allotted to themin the partition action, and from that decree the respondeutsappealed to the Supreme Court. Up to this time the respondentshad been represented by Messrs. Julius A Creasy as their proctors,but on November 19, 1913, their proxy, on the application of therespondents and with the consent of Messrs. Julius A Creasy, wasrevoked, and on November 21, 1913, Mr. Hislop, an assistant orpartner of Mr. O. Tonks, proctor, filed a proxy from the respond-ents. As regards the appeal taken by the respondents, a settle-ment was arrived at (Mr. Hislop acting for the respondents in thatconnection), and on October 1, 1913. a decree of consent wasentered on the following terms: —-
The respondents to convey to Messrs. Vanderspar as from
January 1, 1912, the specific portions of Mipitiyakandeestate allotted to them in severalty in the partitionaction.
The respondents to be paid the proportionate shares payable
to them of the sum of £7,500, the purchase price agreedupon, deducting, however, therefrom the following sums: —
(а)The amount of compensation received, by the res-
pondents in the said partition action No. 3,135,the right, if any, of the respondents to sue theplaintiffs for repayment of the same or anypart thereof being reserved.
(б)The amount of profits earned by the respondents for
their said divided portion of the said Mipitiya-kande estate from January 1, 1912.
(c) The amount of damages, if any, which the – plaintiffsmight show to have been sustained by reason ofnon-cultivation, over-plucking, or over-tapping bythe respondents of their divided portions of thesaid estate.
When the case went back to the District Court, the partiesagreed as to the amount of compensation, damages, and profitswhich were to be deducted from the purchase money and as to theamount in rupees due as purchase money, and the deed of con-veyance was signed on December 2, 1913, in pursuance of thedecree.
< 888 )