
( 241 )
[Full Bench.]
Present; Bertram C, J., Ennis, Porter, and Schneider JJ.»and Garvin A. J.
JANE NONA v. LEO.666—P. C. Kandy, 10,440 H.
Evidence Ordinance, s, 112—Access to the mother—Legitimacy of child
born during subsistence of valid marriage—Impossibility of access.
The word "access ” in section 112 of the Evidence Ordinance,1895, is used in the sense of <* actual intercourse," and not" possibility of access."
Per Bertram C.J., Schneider and Garvin J.J. (dissentientsEnnis and Porter JJ.).—A judgment of the Supreme Courtis not to be treated as a collective judgment unless all the Judgesare present. A judgment of three Judges delivered at a timewhen four Judges constituted a Full Bench is not a judgment ofthe Full Bench, and may be over-ruled by the Collective Court.
Bertram C.J.—It is not competent for a bench of threeJudges to over-rule the opinion of a previous bench of three Judges,just ad it is not competent for a bench of two Judges to over-rulea judgment of two Judges.
Schneider J.—A judgment of a bench of two Judges is notbinding upon another bench of two Judges.
The rule of the English law that parties to a marriage shallnot be entitled to give evidence as to the fact of the absence ofintercourse between them, and the principle that has beendeveloped from the rule that in maintenance cases, where amarried woman seeks to charge a person not her husband with themaintenance of her child, the fact of the husband’s non-accessmust first be proved by independent evidence, and that she maythen, and not till then, give evidence herself as to the parentageof the child, is not our law.
I
N this case the applicant, who was a married woman, claimedmaintenance for an illegitimate child from the defendant.
The defendant denied paternity. The learned Magistrate dismissedthe application as the applicant had not proved impossibility ofaccess by her husband. The applicant appealed. The case wasreserved for argument before a bench of five Judges by Bertram
J. The case came up for argument before the Collective Courton November 27, 192.
The following is the judgment of the learned Magistrate (W.0. Stevens, Esq.):—