
( 359 )
JANSZ v. GREGORIS.P. C., Kurunegala, 11,072.
February 18.
1901.
Arrack Ordinance—Retail gale of arrack contrary to licence—Ordinance No. 13
of 1391, e. 9—“Sell arrack at the price ofand at no other price
whatsoever ”—Intention of Legislature—Terms of the license—Evidenceof sale—Value of evidence of accomplice—Criminal Procedure Code, s.SOS—Drawing up of judgments.
The form of license issuable under the Ordinance. No. 13 of 1801imposes the condition that the licensee “ shall sell arrack and rum at the
“ price ofper imperial gallon, and in proportion for any less quan-
“ tity and at no other price whatsoever.”
Semble, per Bonsek, C.J.—(1) These words fix the maximum priceonly, and were inserted in the Ordinance npt out of regard for theinterests of the community With a view to discourage the sale ofintoxicating liquor, but because it Was felt to be the duty of the Govern-ment to fix the price of commodities for the benefit of the consumer.
The licensee is therefore at liberty to sell the arrack in hispossession at any price less than the maximum, or give it away fornothing.
The evidence of a man who sWears that he bought arrack for aprice below the maximum actually fixed by the license must be treatedas the evidence of an accomplice, because it requires two persons tobuy and sell.
When the Whole case for the prosecution rests upon the evidenceof such an accomplice, it should not be relied on unless he is corroboratedin some material particulars, although in strict laW a conviction foundedupon his evidence only is good.
Held, that a judgment drawn up under section 306 of the CrinfinalProcedure Code should specify the offence, the section of the law underwhich the conviction was had, the name of the accused, and the date ofthe conviction.
HIS was a prosecution under section 9 of the Ordinance No. 13
of 1891, in that the accused, being duly licensed by theGovernment Agent of the North-Western Province to sell arrackby retail from 1st January, 1900, to 31st December, 1900, inclusive,at tavern No. 1, situated at Kurunegala, on condition that he shallsell arrack at the price of Its. 4.50 per imperial gallon, and inproportion for any less quantity, and at no other price whatsoever,did on the 28th December, 1900, at tavern No. 1 aforesaid, contraryto the tenour of such license, sell or cause to be sold on his accountfive imperial gallons of arrack to one Itangkira, and two imperialgallons to one Undia, and one imperial gallon to one Juanis, at theprice of Its. 3 per imperial gallon.
The accused was the person put in charge of the tavern by therenters.
The license granted by the Government Agent to the renter toretail arrack and rum ran ns follows: —
“ This is to certify that I. F. C. Fisher, Government Agent forthe North-Western Province, do hereby license Mr. T. H. A. de