
( 174 )
1914.
Present: Pereira J. and Ennis J.JAYAWICKRAMA et al. v. AMARASOORIYA161—B. C. Galle 11,862.
Pleading insufficiently stamped—Not rejected by Court—Presumption infavour of an adjudication as to its sufficiency—^Inadvertent omission,of the Court to consider question of stamp duty—Court may, returnpleading for proper stamping before other side takes any steps in&apos;. case—Attorney-General to take steps to recover deficiency of duty—Civil ProcedureCode, 8$.46,77—Objection not to be takenin
answer as to insufficiency of duty.
When a plaint or an answer is not rejected by a District Judgeunder section 46or section77of the Civil Procedure Code,the
presumption is that the Judge has adjudicated in favour of theparty who had tendered the pleading on the question as to thesufficiency of the stamp- thereon. When a plaint, or answer isaccepted as the result of an inadvertent omission on. the part ofthe Court to consider the question* of the sufficiency of stamp duty,it may be that before any step in the regular course of procedureis taken by the opposite party the Court may return the pleadingto be properly stamped ; but, generally speaking, where an insuffi-ciently stamped pleading is accepted after consideration of thesufficiency of stamp duty or inadvertently, the remedy, if anyexists, is by means of «euch action as the Attorney General, asrepresenting the Crown, to which all stamp duties are a debt, maybe deemed to beentitled totake. No objection can be taken by a.
defendant in hisanswer ontheground of the insufficiency ofthe
stamn on a plaint.
( 175 )
fJlHE facta appear from the judgment.
■m
Bawa, K.G., for defendants, appellants.
H. J. G. Pereira, for plaintiffs^ respondents.
1914.
Jaya~
urickrama v.Atnara-sooriya
Cur. adv. unit.
February 20, 1914. Pereira J.—
In this case the defendant appeals from two orders made by theDistrict Judge: (1) an order directing that this action do proceedon the plaintiffs supplying a deficiency of stamp duty on the plaint;and (2) an order rejecting the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th issuessuggested by the defendant’s counsel. As regards the first order,the appellant’s contention is that, having found that there was adeficiency of stamp duty on the plaint, the District Judge shouldhave dismissed the plaintiff’s claim altogether. The only provisionof the law now in force relating to stamps on plaints appears to bethe provision of section 46 of the Civil Procedure Code, Section38 of Ordinance No. 23 of 1871 and section 34 of Ordinance No. 3of 1890 gave the power to Judges to require an insufficiently stampedpleading to be duly stamped, and when that was done, to proceedwith the action as if the pleading had been originally, duly stamped •but these Ordinances were repealed by Ordinance No. 22 of 1909,which contained no such provision as that, mentioned above.Section 37 of the Ordinance, I do not think, applies to pleadingsin cases. It refers to “ instruments tendered in evidence, ” andclearly a plaint does not answer to that description of document.So that when/in the case of a plaint under section 46 of the Codeand in the case of an answer under section 77, the Judge does notreject the pleading, but accepts it, the presumption iis that he hasadjudicated in favour of the party who has tendered the documentthe question of the sufficiency of the stamp thereon, and I doubtthat the adjudication in such a case can be interfered writh byanybody.- In the case, however, – of a plaint or answer beingaccepted per incuriam, that is to say, as the result of an inadvertentomission on the part of the Court to consider the question of thesufficiency of the stamp thereon, it may be that before any step inthe regular course of procedure is taken by the opposite party theCourt may return the pleading to be properly stamped ; but thisquestion need not be considered on this appeal, because we have ng(information from the District judge that the plaint in this case wasaccepted by him per incuriam, and no order returning the plaint was,in fact, made before the filing of the answer. When a Judge, havingconsidered the question of the sufficiency of stamp-duty, has accepteda plaint or answer, or has accepted it having inadvertently omittedto consider the question, the remedy, if indeed any exists, can onlybe by means of such action as the Attorney-General, as representing
1414,
PawEISA J,
Jaw
wickrama v.Amara•800fiya