
( 373 )
JAYAWARDENA v. WIJEYESINHA et al.
1899.October 9.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL, added Party Defendant.
D. C., ChUaw, 788.
Procedure—Partition suit—Admission of the Crown into the case as anadded defendant—Denied by Attorney-General on behalf of theCrown of plaintiffs and defendant&apos;s tide—Who to begin.
Where in a partition case the plaintiff and defendant derived titlefrom a common ancestor, and the Crown appeared and was allowedto file answer as an added defendant denying the title of suchancestor to the whole of the land, and itself claiming title to agreat portion of the land, the proper procedure is for the plaintiffto begin his case.
HIS case was instituted in January, 1894, by plaintiff against
several defendants, who were alleged to be part owners ofa certain tract of land, for partition of the same among them.
Answers were filed by many of the defendants, and the trialwas fixed for 8th October, 1897 ; but notice of trial not having beenserved on all the defendants, the case was postponed for 10thFebruary, 1898, and thereafter for several other dates. In themeanwhile, on the 26th May, 1898, Mr. Proctor Koertz, appearingfor the Attorney-General, moved that “ as the Crown has an“ interest in a portion of the land which forms the subject-matter“ of partition, the name of the Attorney-General of Ceylon be“ entered as an added party, and the trial of the case fixed for 3rd“ June next."&apos; The motion being allowed, the Attorney-General’sanswer as an added defendant was admitted and filed.
His answer took exception to the plaint, in that it did not dis-close how Tamby Mudaliyar, named in the plaint as the originalowner of the land sought to be partitioned, became the owner,whether by saunas, grant, or otherwise. On the merits, ’ theAttorney-General denied that the said Tamby Mudaliyar was theowner of the said entire land, or that heirs or descendants repre-sented by the defendants were entitled to the same. For a furtheranswer, the Attorney-General pleaded that within the boundariesset out in the plaint as containing 730 acres there were severalallotments of land aggregating 442 acres which belonged to theCrown. And the Attorney-General prayed that in the event of apartition being decreed, the several allotments named by him asaggregating 442 acres be excluded, and the same, be declared theproperty of the Crown.
On the trial day the issue agreed upon was: Whether the lotsmentioned by the Attorney-General are the property of the plaintiffsand defendants, or the property of the Crown.