
THIS
NEW LAW REPORTS OF CEYLONVOLUME VIII
&apos;
October IS ’
(In review, preparatory to appeal to H. M. in Council.).
Marriage.—Legality of a man marrying a woman with whom, during the life-time of his wife, he had lived in adultery.
PerMiddi.btonJ.,and Sampato, A.J.(dissentiente Moncreiff,
A.C.J.).—It is not illegal in Ceylon for a man who had lived in adultery* with a woman during the lifetime of his wife to marry such womanafter the death of his wife.
Previous to the Placaat of 1674, such marriages were not forbiddenunlessthere hadbeena promise during thelifetime of the innocent
spouse,or unlesstheyhad been guilty ofan attempt against such
spouse’s life.
ThePlacaat of1674prohibited such marriages absolutely, but it was
enacted subsequently to the settlement of the Dutch in Ceylon, andthere is nothing to show that that law was ever recognized or acted inCeylon; nOr has it been proved in the present case that the parties camewithin the prohibitions of the earlier law.
Itnronchihamy v. Angohamy, 2 N. L.R. 276, not foliotoed.
rj^BE facte of this case are as follows: —
One Sinno Appu was married in community of property toone Babunhamy. While this marriage was subsisting, he livedwith one Angohami (the first defendant), and by her had twochildren, the second and third defendants. ■’,
After the death of his wife Babunhamy, which happened onthe 20th January, 1883, he married the first defendant and»hadtwo jyaore children by her, the fourth and fifth defendants.*
He died on 24th November,. 1887, intestate.
rJ. N. B 6920—500 (4/51)
KARONCHIHAMY tr. ANGOHAMY.D. C., Kandy, 6,563.
( 2 )
1904. During the lifetime of the intestate he made a deed of gift, onOctober 18. 19th April, 1880, granting five allotments of land to the first and •
”third defendants, describing them as “ my wife and her child.”
The consideration for the gift was expressed to be anagreement between the donors and donees “ that the said Angc>-hamy should be obedient to me and render me every necessaryassistance.”
The deed provided that Angohamv was to possess the landduring her life, and after that the above-said child and any otherchildren which she may bear after this, and their descendants andadministrators were empowered to possess the said land. Ango-hamy accepted the gift. ”<
The present action was raised by the first plaintiff, the onlychild of the intestate by his wife Babu&apos;nhamy, and the secondplaintiff, as her husband, to have the deed of gift set aside as illegal,,and to have it declared that the intestate and An gob tuny were notlawfully married.
Several issues were developed in the pleadings, and the DistrictJudge (Mr. J. H. de Saram) decided ten of them and reserved hisorder on the rest. His judgment was delivered on 21st January,1895. Against this the plaintiffs appealed, and the appeal came onfor hearing on 7th October, 1896, before Bonser, O.J., Lawrie, J., andWithers, J. Their lordships by their judgments of 26th January.1897, varied the decree of the Court below and declared asfollows: —
That the marriage between Sinno Appu and Angohumy (thefirst defendant) was null and void, and that- she was not entitledto succeed ab intentato to any part of his estate.
That the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth defendantswere not the legitimate children of Sinno Appu, and not entitledto succeed ab iniestato to any part of Sinno Appu’s estate.
That the donees under the deed of gift of 10th April. 1880,made by Sinno Appu, were lawfully entitled to the title therebyconveyed.
The judgments of * their lordships will be found reported in2 N. L. R. 276-285.
On the case going back to the Court below, the District Judge heardevidence on some of the issues agreed to on 13th June, 1894, anddelivered judgment on 25th September, 1899, which was affirmedon appeal by the Supreme Court on 10th May, 1900. Aggrievedby this judgment the defendant, Angohamv, preparatory to anappeal to Her Majesty in Council, brought up. the judgment inreview before a- Full Bench of the Supreme Court.
(3 )
i-
The case came on for hearing on the 23rd June, 1904, and was .. 1904.re-argued on 23rd August, 1904, before Moncreiff, A.C.J., Middleton, OctoberJ.. and Sampayo, A.J.&apos;
Van Langenberg (with him H. Jayawardene and Prins), forappellants.—The question is whether a man after the death of hiswife can&apos;marry a woman with whom, during the lifetime of his wife,he has been living in adultery. It is conceded that by the laterRoman-Dutch Law such marriages were forbidden, but the disabi-lity was created by a Placaat of the 18th July, 1674. It is contendedthat this law was never introduced into Ceylon at-least, the onus‘is on the respondents to show that it was, all the more as thePlacaat was promulgated after the Dutch had established themselvesi_n Ceylon. In support of the proposition that the whole of theRoman-Dutch Law was not in force here reference may be made tothe case of Wijeyekoon v. Goonewardene, 2 C. L. B., p. 59, whereMr.. Justice Dias says: “ The whole of the Dutch Law as it prevailedin Holland more than a century ago was never bodily importedinto Ceylon. ” Even if it be held that the Placaat was law here, itis submitted that it has been repealed by Ordinance No. 6 of 1847.
Section 31 of the Ordinance says that a legal marriage between anyparties shall have the effect of rendering legitimate the birth ofany children who may have been procreated between the sameparties before marriage, unless such children shall have been pro-created in adultery. The proviso is meaningless, unless the parentscan legally marry each other. If there can be no legal marriage,then why should the section refer at all to children procreated inadultery? It cannot be argued that the proviso has no connectionwith the previous portion of the section, but merely declares what theold law is, for then it must be explained why the Ordinance makesno reference to children bora of an incestuous union. It is submittedthat the section contemplates a case like the present one: the secondand third defendants were born as the result of an adulterous inter-course; then Babunhamy, the wife, dies; the parents marry, and there-after the fourth and fifth defendants are born. It is admitted thatunder the section the marriage of the parents has not the effect ofrendering legitimate the second and third defendants. As regardssection 55 of the Ordinance, it was necessary to enact it as the Ordi-nance does not affect (for example) Kandyah and Mohammedanmarriages.
Domhorst, K.C., for plaintiffs, respondents, relied on the fullCourt judgment reported in 2 N. L. B. 276.
Cur. ady. vult.
. ( * )
1904.
October 18.
18th October, 1904. Moncheiff, A.C.J.—
This was -an administration suit. The first defendant is ad-ministratrix of the estate of the late Sinno Appu. The firstplaintiff is Sinno Appu’s daughter by his lawful wife now dead;the second plaintiff is her husband. The second, third, fourth,and fifth defendants are children of the first defendant by SinnoAppu.
The plaint is dated 31st January, 1893. From a judgment inthe case dated 21st January, 1895, an appeal was taken to thisCourt, and the decision of the District Judge was varied in certainparticulars. That appeal was heard by three Judges, and isreported in 2 N. L. R. 276.
The case then proceeded, and the District Judge entered adecree on the 25th September, 1899, which was affirmed on appealto the Supreme Court on the 10th May, 1900. This decision, bywhich the first plaintiff is declared to be the sole heiress of "SinnoAppu, has been brought before us by the defendants for reviewpreparatory to appealing to His Majesty in Council.
I
The following facts are material: —
In 1859 the deceased Sinno Appu, a native of Ahangama in theGalle District, settled at Rikillegasgoda in the Kandyan Provinces.
0.n the 2nd October, 1865, he married Babunhamy in com-munity of property, and by her had a daughter, Karonchyhatnv,the first plaintiff. In the lifetime of his wife he lived withAngohamy, the first defendant (who was of the Karawe caste), andfrom that connection the second and third defendants were born.
On the 20th January, 1883, Babunhamy died.
On the 2nd Judy, 1883, Sinno Appu’s marriage with Angohamywas registered, and from their union after registration were bornthe fourth and fifth defendants.
On the 24th November, 1887, Sinno Appu died intestate, andAngohamy was appointed administratrix of his estate.
The question is whether the marriage registered between SinnoAppu and Angohamy was valid. If it was, then Angohamy, beingSinno Appu’s wife from the 2nd July, 1883, and the fourth andfifth defendants being legitimate, are entitled to inherit ahintestato. It is not now contended that, assuming the marriage tobe valid, the second and third defendants, born before marriage,were rendered legitimate by the registration.
By Roman-Dutch Law marriage could not be contracted byper&ns who had lived together • in adultery. Therefore thechildren procreated between such persons, either before or* aftera marriage entered into by them, are by that law not legitimate,and they cannot inherit.
( s )Voet (Commentary on the Pandects, 1698, bk. 23, 2, 27) says,in speaking of the Placaat of 1674:Satius postea Ordinibus
Hollandioe visum fuvt, edjcto suo matrimonia hufus-modi inuniversupi damnare atque vetiare; ac re ipsd. contracta pro■mullis habere-, si forte &apos; crimen, initio matrimonii ignorabum,postea m-anif&stum fiat. (Placiio Ordinum Hollandioe, 18 Julii,1674, vol. 3, placit. Holl., pag. 507.)