
( 197 )
ETRIHAMY MUHANDIRAMA v. DINGIRI APPU.
D. C., Kandy, 13,746.
Prescriptive possession-i-Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, s. 3—Usufructuary mortgage.
In order that a srson may avail himself of section 3 of Ordinance No.
22 of 1871—
 Possession must be shown from which a right in another personcannot be fairly or naturally inferred.
Possession required by the section must be shown on the part ofthe party litigating or by “ those under whom he claims.”
 The possession of those under whom the party claims meanspossession by his predecessors in title.
 Judgment must be for a person who is a party to the action andnot for one who sets up the possession of another person, who is neitherhis predecessor in title nor a party to the action.
B and M sued the administrator of D H and obtained judgment intheir favour in 1884 as heirs of their adoptive father D H in respect ofcertain lands. B conveyed his half share to M, and M conveyed thewhole to the plaintiff.
In an action rex oindieotio against the defendants, the first and seconddefendants, who had married the third and fourth defendants, claimed anundivided half share of the lands, as the children and heirs of P M, whowas a daughter and heir of D H, and to whom the administrator of D Hhad conveyed a half share by deed dated 5th October, 1877; and thefourth defendant set up title under a usufructuary mortgage deed grantedby P M and the administrator of D H in 1882. The first and seconddefendants pleaded the occupation of the fourth defendant in lieu ofinterest due by their mother P M since 1882 by way of prescriptive possession.
Held, that the conveyance of the administrator of D H to P M on the5th October, 1877, was void as against the decree in favour of B and M;that P M’s usufructuary mortgage of a moiety of the lands to the fourthdefendant was also void; that the fourth defendant&apos;s occupation in lieu ofinterest due by the administrator of D H in respect of the other moietyof the lands was on behalf of persons who had not been made parties tothe present action; and that their right of possession could not be usedfor the purpose of defeating the plaintiff&apos;s right to that extent.
HIS was an action to vindicate certain lands from the defen-
dants. The plaintiff’s case was that the lands belonged toone Hangidiya, the uncle of Ran Naide and the grand-uncle of oneMuhandirama, and who adopted as his sons both Ran Naide andMuhandirama; that these two persons inherited the lands fromDingiri Appu Hangidiya; that they obtained a decree in theirfavour for these lands in suit No. 74,171 on the 13th August, 1884;that on the 18th December, 1876, Ran Naide conveyed an un-divided half share of them to Muhandirama, who conveyed theentirety of them, to the plaintiff on the 14th May, 1895; and that.the defendants took forcible possession of the lands about a yearbefore the present action was instituted.
1003.
March 13and 19.