
( 160 )
LE MESURIER v. LE MESURIER et al.
C.t Mdtara, 502.
Marriage between Britieh or European spouses resident in the Island—Matrimonial law of Ceylon—Proclamation of 23rd September, 1799-Charters of 1801 and 1833—Scope of s. 597 of Civil ProcedureCode—Applicability of Roman-Dutch law—Authority of Internationallaw in the consideration of jurisdiction of Courts—Remedies for matri-monial misconduct allowable by Courts of the residence of the spouses—Action for divorce—for judicial separation—for alimony.
The matrimonial law of Ceylon, established by the Proclamation of23rd September, 1799, was superseded, or at least modified, in so far asit related to British and European residents, by the enactments of theBoyal Charter of 1801. But upon the repeal of those enactments bythe Charter of Justice of the 18th February, 1833, the Proclamation of1799 was revived, and the matrimonial law applicable to such residentsagain became the Boman-Dutch law.
The Boman-Dutch law does not give jurisdiction to the Courts of thecountry in wnich spouses domiciled elsewhere are for the time resident,to entertain a divorce suit.
Neither does section 597 of the Civil Procedure Code, nor didprevious enactments to a similar effect, empower a District Court toentertain any divorce suit which was not previously cognizable by theCourts of the Island.
According to international law, which is authoritative in the absenceof any municipal law to the contrary, the true domicile of the marriedpair, as distinguished from their so-called matrimonial domicile, affordsthe only test of jurisdiction to dissolve their marriage ; and the Courtsof England will not recognize as effectual the decree of a foreign courtdivorcing spouses who at its date had their domicile in England.
But though a District Court? of the Island cannot decree a dissolu-tion of marriage in the case of such residents, yet it may, under therules of international law, administer other remedies for matrimonialmisconduct, such as judicial separation on the ground of cruelty, andalimony for desertion.
HE plaintiff in this case appealed to Her Majesty the Queen
in Her Privy Council against the judgment of the SupremeCourt delivered on the 29th June, 1895, setting aside the judgmentof the District Court of Matara, and dismissing plaintiff’s actionwith costs.
The factB of the case are fully set forth in the judgmentof the Lords of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council,namely:—
The Lord Chancellor, Lord Watson, Lord Hobhousb,Lord Macnaghten, Lord Morris, and Sir R. Couch.
Their judgment was delivered by Lord Watson, as follows
In February, 1883, the appellant, who is a member of theCeylon Civil Service, was married in England to a French lady,the leading respondent in this appeal, who will hereinafter be