
I 343 )
Present : De Sampayo J.
LEBBE v. BANDA et oX.
48—C. B. Qampola, 3,256.
Possessory action by lessee—Value of suit—Jurisdiction.
The value of the subject-matter of a possessory action for thepurpose of jurisdiction when the suit is brought by a lessee is notthe value of the unexpired term of the lease, but the value of theland itself.
fJ^iJEUbl facts appear from the judgment.
J. S. Jayawardene, for the defendants, appellants.
Oorloff (with him Bartholomeusz), for the plaintiff, respondent.
March 20, 1918. De Sampayo J.—
This case raises a question as to the value of the subject-matterof a possessory suit for the purpose of jurisdiction of the Court when,the suit is brought by a lessee. Upon a deed of lease dated April 6,1916, the plaintiff is the lessee of a land called Paragahaowitawatta,for a period of twenty years from the date of the lease, at a rentedof Bs. 5 a year, and he has brought this possessory suit against thedefendants on an allegation that he was forcibly ousted. If the valueof the land is to be calculated according to the rental at the usualnumber of years’ purchase, it is obviously below Rs. 300. Theonly evidence was that of the Korala, who valued the land with thehouse thereon above Rs. 300. There is no express finding as to thevalue, and the Court only considered the abstract question whetherthe jurisdiction of the Court should be determined by the value ofthe land itself, or by the value of the plaintiff’s interest therein aslessee, which is admittedly below Rs. 300 in value.
The defendants have objected to the jurisdiction of the Court ofRequests, on the ground that it is the value of the land itself thatshould be taken into consideration. The Commissioner in over-ruling the objection has relied on Silva v. Siyaris.1 That was a case-brought by a usufructuary mortgagee to be restored to possession,and the learned Judge who decided the case took care to point outthat it was not a possessory suit. John Sinno v. Julis Appu a isstill less applicable, because it was clearly an ordinary action brought
» (1909) 9 S. C. D. 64.s (1907) 10 N. L. B. 351.
IMS.