
( 342 )
1896.
January 24and 31.
MEERA SAIBO v. SAMARANAYAKA et al.D. G., Kandy, 94,630.Writ of execution against property—Commitment of judgment-debtor—CivilProcedure Code, ss. 224,337, 347—Fatal itregularities.
Where plaintiff petitioned in terms of section 347 of the Civil Proce-dure Code, after several years had elapsed between the date of thedecree in his favour and the application for its execution, but suppressedthe facts that he had made previous applications for execution of thedecree and levies had been made on his writ, and, nevertheless, hisapplication was allowed,—
Held that, in the absence of any evidence to satisfy the Court, asprovided in section 337 of the Code, that in the last preceding applica-tion due diligence had been used to procure complete satisfaction of thedecree, or that execution was stayed at the request of the judgment-debtor, leave to execute the decree should not have been granted.
Writ against property having issued, and the Fiscal having madereturn thereto that the judgment-debtors neither complied with hisrequirement to pay nor pointed out property for seizure, plaintiff movedfor and obtained a warrant for the arrest of the judgment-debtor, andhad him arrested and committed to prison.
( 343 )
Held, that, a* the order allowing writ against property had improvide 189(1.emanavit, the writ and the return thereto was nnsoond, as also the T-~r-ry 24warrant of arrest and the commitment of the defendant to prison.and 31
De Silva v. Sella Omma, 2 S. C. R., 155, explained."~—
HIS was an appeal from an order made by the District Judge
of Kandy on the 9th December, 1895, committing to civilimprisonment the appellant who had been arrested under awarrant against person in execution of a decree obtained againsthim on the 27th September, 1884.
The facts of the case are fully set forth in the judgments givenbelow:—
Wendt, for appellant.
Domhorst, for respondent.
Withers, J.—
On the 27th September, 1884, the appellant and anotherof the same name were decreed jointly and severally liable to paythe plaintiff a sum of Rs. 256 with interest till payment in fulland costs.
Writ against property issued thereupon, and on the 11th Nov-ember, 1884, two lands were sold, one for Rs. 46, bought by anoutsider, and one for Rs. 20, bought by the plaintiff, who wasfortunate enough to secure for Rs. 20 a land valued by the Fiscal’sofficer at Rs. 400, and for this he obtained an order of credit.
On the 11th March, 1885, writ against property was allowedto re-issue, accompanied with writ against person, but writ againstproperty was not taken out till the 6th August following, and nowrit against person was taken out at all.
No further steps towards execution was taken till the 22ndMarch, 1889, when plaintiff took out a rule nisi on the judgment-debtor to show cause why judgment should not be revived torecover the balance.
Here the plaintiff stopped and waited till the 4th May, 1891,when he applied for execution of the decree, of which notice wasordered to issue to the defendants, and the 26th May, 1891, wasfixed for the hearing of the application.
The defendants were both in default, and the plaintiff wasallowed to take out execution. His application was made afterthe Code had come into operation, but the petition required by the347th section of the Code did not contain the particulars requiredby the 224th section of the Code.
I cannot find that plaintiff took advantage of the concession toissue writ.