
( 104 )
1900.
June6andlZ.
MENDIS v. FERNANDO.P. C., Panadure, 7,679.
Irregularity—Criminal Procedure Code, a. 187—Police Court proceedings.
Where no summons or warrant was issued, but the accused appearedbefore the Police Court, it is the duty of the Magistrate to frame acharge under section 187 in writing, and then to read it to the accusedunder section 187 (3).
The object of the provisions contained in section 187 (1, 2, and 3)is to apprise the accused, by the summons, warrant or charge, of theprecise accusation against him, and the omission to observe theseformalities would render void all subsequent proceedings.
GAINST the order of acquittal made in this case of stabbing
by the Police Magistrate, the Attorney-General appealedon the ground of irregularity of proceedings.
Walter Pereira, Acting S.-G., for appellant.—No summons orwarrant appears to have been issued; nor charge framed undersection 187 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code; nor statementof the particulars of the offence read by the Magistrate to theaccused under sections 187 (2) and 187 (3). All the evidenceavailable for the prosecution in this case of stabbing was notrecorded, as enjoined by section 190, before the order of acquittalwas made. There is no entry in the* record that the case for theprosecution was closed. Evidence recorded in another case, 7,676,appears to have been utilized by the Police Magistrate, without anypart of it being read in evidence here.
No appearance for respondent.
12th June, 1900, Browne, A.J.—
As far as I can gather what happened was this. The partieshad a row in the carpenter’s shed of the complainant, Thomis.Mendis, who was stabbed with a chisel, while accused, JuanisFernando, received three incised wounds and two contusions.Accused went home and sent for the police headman and com-plained to him against Thomis Mendis, Gregoris, and Anthony.The headman arrested Gregoris and produced him before thePolice Court with a report, and proceedings bearing No. 7,676were instituted. On the same day at 4 p.m. Thomis Mendis cameto Court bringing a report from the same headman, which readsonly as if it were the record of a complaint made, but not indicat-ing any inquiry or arrest. The prosecution, the subject of thisappeal, was instituted on the next day by the examination of .