
( 270 )
1900.
October 8and 18.
MEYAPPA CHETTY v. SOMASUNDRAM CHETTY.D. C., Kandy, 13,035.
Lost cheque—Action by holder in due course against drawer—Right of defendantto plead that the cheque was not filled in by his authority—Estoppel bynegligence.
S, having an account in the Kandy branch of the Mercantile Bank ofIndia, signed a number of cheques in blank and left the cheque book inthe custody of his agent with authority to fill in the cheques whenrequired. The agent kept the cheque book in a box secured by a lockin his shop at Kandy. Some one tore a cheque out of the book, filled itin favour of A or order, and A carried it to Colombo, where plaintiff, fora consideration paid by A, cashed it for him on the day after it was drawn,and then presented the cheque for payment at Kandy. The bankernot being placed in funds referred the cheque to the drawer, when it Wasdiscovered that the cheque in question had been inproperly abstractedfrom S’s cheque book and filled in, without his or his agent’s knowledgeor approval.
Held, per Bonsbr, C.J., in an action brought by the holder againstS, that the banker not having cashed the cheque, the defendant haddone nothing to estop him from pleading the fact that the cheque wasnot filled in by his authority, direct or indirect.
Per Browne, A.J.—There is nothing proved against the defendant:not an estoppel by negligence in the transaction itself; nor in leadingthe third party into mistake; nor in neglecting some duty to the thirdparty or the public.
The proximate cause of the fraud was not negligence on the partof the defendant, but theft on the part of an unknown person.
HE defendant in this case was sued upon a cheque said to have
been granted by him to one Abdul Rahiman and endorsedby the latter to the plaintiff. The defendant pleaded forgery.
The District Judge gave judgment for plaintiff as follows: —
‘‘ This is an action on a cheque signed by the defendant forRs. 2,800. The parties are, as their names indicate, Chetties.The plaintiff resides in Colombo and the defendant in Kandy.The facts I find are these. The defendant had an account in