
( 33 )
Present: Grenier J,
MOHIDEEN v. GNANAPRAKASAM et al126—C. R. Jaffna, 7,978.
Plain(^Acceptance of—Court has no power to reject plaint after service ofsummon# on defendant—Civil Procedure Code, s. 40.
It is not competent for a Judge to reject a plaint after havingonce accepted it and ordered summons, if the summons had beenduly served; he should leave it to the defendants to raise anyquestions as to its legal sufficiency to support the intended action.
JJ&apos;HE facts appear sufficiently from the judgment.
tfqfprvasingham^ for appellant.—The plaint when once acceptedand filed cannot be rejected. Section 46, Civil Procedure Code,gives the Court power to reject a plaint only before it is allowed tobe filed. The Court has no power to reject the plaint after serviceof summons. Counsel cited Fernando v. Soyzax% Ratwatte v. Owen.1
J. Joseph, for the respondent§*=Stetion 46 does not restrict thepower of the Court to rejggt ft plaint after it has been filed. If theplaint h&i been iWp?OE?rly admitted, the Court may reject it at anytime. !l ha§ been held in India that a plaint could be rejected,afteF it has been registered, at any stage of the suit. KenhereSingh v, Abdul Slngh^ Venketesar Tawker v. Rama Samy Chettiar,**Brihama v. Rubisingh/&apos;
Cur. adv. vult.
June 20, 1910. Grenier J.—
The question debated on this appeal was whether it was com-petent for the Commissioner, after having once accepted the plaintand ordered summons, which has been duly served, to reject it. Ifthe order accepting the plaint was one which improvide emanavit, 1cannot see any objection to such a course before service of summons,because the order would ex necessitate be in the nature of an ex parteorder, which can be recalled without involving any question of notice.In the present case certain proceedings have followed upon theacceptance of the plaint, one of the defendants having asked fortime to file answer, and another defendant having given a proxy toa proctor, which, in my opinion, render it desirable that the suffi-ciency or otherwise of the plaint, which has no defects on the face
*(me) 2 X. L. R. 40.*(1890) /. L. R. 22 All. 553.
*(1896) 2 X. L. R. 141.*(1895) I. L. R. 18 Mad. 338.
4 (WOO) l. L. R. 27 Cal.. 376.
Voi.. XIV,*
June 20,1010
•J. X. A tttS48 111 49)