
( 239 )
Present Bertram C.J. and Schneider J.
MOHIDEEN v. ISEY.
52—D. C. Colombo, 2,306.
Sale by auctioneer under a mortgage decree—Purchaser gets title from dateof transfer, and not from date of sale—Civil Procedure Code,ss. 201 and 289—Convenant by a lessor to pay a sum of money tolessee in the event of his selling the property pending lease—Notapplicable to sale in execution—Claim for damages by lessee formortgaging property after lease—Liability of lessee to pay rentthough subtenants do not pay rent owing to lawful act of lessor.
A leasedbisland to B who didnotregister his lease. There*
after A mortgaged it to C, who put the bond in suit and obtainedjudgment. The property was sold by an auctioneer under themortgage decree.
Held, that the lessee (B) was bound to pay rent to the lessor (A)up to thedate of the execution ofthedeed of transfer in the
absence ofanyspecial agreement, asthepurchaser’s title does not
relate back to the date of the actual sale as in the case of a Fiscal’ssale.
The lesseeallegedthat after thenotice ofsale, hissubtenants
were disturbed in mind, and would not pay their rents.
Held, thatthisdidnot justify thelessee with holdingrent from
the lessor.&apos;&apos; Atenant is not dischargedfrom his legal obligations
tohislandlordby a purely lawfulact onthepartofthat
landlord,simplybecausein consequence ofthatacthisown
subtenants misconceived their own legal position.”
A covenantbythelessor to pay a- sum ofmoney tohis lessee,
in the event of his selling the property pending the lease, does notapply to a sale in execution.
The lesseehasnoright to claimdamagesfrom hislessor for
granting the mortgage (which was registered) after leasing it tothe lessor.
HE facts are set out in the judgment of the District Judge(H. A. Loos, Esq.): —
The defendant leased certain premises to. the plaintiff by the indentureof leaseNo.83 datedOctober30, 1918, fora periodof five years,com*
mencingfromOctober1, 1918,at a monthlyrental ofBs.280.
At the time of the execution of the indenture, the plaintiff paid tothe defendant a sum of Bs. 2,500 in advance as the rent for the lastnine months of the terms.
One of the covenants of the lease was to the effect that in the eventof the sale of the leased premises by the defendant during the pendencyof the lease, the defendant Bhould pay to the plaintiff the advance ofBs. 2,500 or any portion thereof that may then be due and a sum ofBs. 1,500 as damages.
1922.
( 240 )
1922.
Mohideen v.laey
Under writ issued in the action No. 62,821 of this Court against thedefendant in execution of a mortgage &apos;decree, the leased premises weresold oh January 1, 1920.
The plaintiff accordingly lost- the possession of the leased premiseson March 5, 1920, on which date the Fiscal placed the purchaser inpossession.
The plaintiff now&apos; claims the sum of Bs. 2,500 paid by him in advance,less a sum of Ks. 950 which he admits he has received therefrom fromthe defendant, together with the sum of Es. 1,500, the damages fixedby the indenture of lease, as payable to him in the. event of a sale ofthe premises by the defendant.
As a, matter of fact the plaintiff claims from the defendant in hisprayer a sum of Its. 4,550, but there is nothing to show what the amountin excess of that referred to above represents,.
The defendant admits the execution &apos;of the- indenture of lease, andthat it contains the covenants referred to above.
She also admits the sale of the leased premises, but denies that theplaintiff is entitled to any damages, for the sale was not a voluntaryone, but a forced sale, and also states that the plaintiff omitted toregister the lease in his favour, which was prior in date to the mortgagebond in execution of the decree upon which the premises were sold,and that the default of the plaintiff in that respect disentitles him toclaim damages.
By way of further answer, the defendant states that in addition tothe snm of Bs. 945 which the plaintiff admits he has been paid, thedefendant is entitled to credit for-rent from December. 1919, to February,1920, amounting to Bs. 840, and to .the price of a calf and three goatssold to the plaintiff by her, viz., Bs. 100.
The defendant admits that there is a .siim of Bs. 486.98 due to theplaintiff.
The plaintiff&apos;s counsel proposed a large number of issues to severalof which the defendant&apos;s counsel objected for the reasons appearingin the record, and eventually the parties went to trial upon the followingissues, viz.:—
Is the defendantliable to refundto the . plaintiffthe advanceof
Bs. 2,500, andto paysum ofBs. 1,500 as d&dj[&£&?
What sum did the defendant repay to the plaintiff? –
 Was the plaintiff not liable – to pay defendant rent ‘ for Jafiuary
and February, 1920, by r«5sbh of the aforesaid sate?
Did the defendant sell to plaintiff a calf and thtefc goats?
If so, for what amount?
Was there a salewith themeaningof the lease?•’
<7)Did the plaintifflose hisrights by reasofi of hisfLef&trtt,ifany,
in the registration of his lease?
Is the plaintiff liable to pay rent to the&apos; defendant up to the date
of dispossession, vis., March 5, 1920, of only Up to the date ofBale?
Has the plaintiff paid rent for the month.of December, 1919?
As regards the first issue, &apos; Che defendant gdifrits hef * liability torefunds the amount of the advance*, lees* the sums for which she is entitledto credit.>
i
As regards the&apos; ninth issue, the plaifitiff admits that .lias &apos;not paidrent for the month of December, 1919, but denies his liability to pay it.
( 241 )
Ah regards the second issue, the plaintiff admits that&apos; he has receivedfrom the defendant the sums of B3. 660 and Rs. 903.02, out of theadvance of Bs. 2.600, so that according to him there in a balance sumof Rs. 1,666.98 still due out of the sum of Rs. 2,600.
I am not prepared to hold that the defendant paid the sum of Rs. 190referred to in the answer to the plaintiff on the evidence before me.
The defendant’s only witness who is her son and attorney gavesomewhat unsatisfactory evidence on that point, and ultimatelyadmitted that he had not paid that sum to the plaintiff, but that hehad asked his brother-in-law to do so, in the absence of the- evidenceof the brother-in-law, or of any document to prove the payment, Imast hold that the payment has not been proved.
lhen, too, as regards the question of the saleofa calf andthree
goats to the plaintiff by the defendant, I amnot satisfied thatthere
was any such sale.
The plaintiff states that the defendant made a present of the calfto him in consideration of his having kept a cow and calf of thedefendant on the leased premises for sometime, and he also statesthat a goat and two kids of the defendant were left with him to belooked after, that one of the kids died, and the defendant removed thegoat and the remaining kid about twelve or sixteen months ago. ,
The evidence of the plaintiff appears to me to be more probable thanthat of the defendant’s son, and I accept it in preference to&apos; that ofthe latter.
So that I am of opinion that the defendantisnotentitled tocredit
for the sums of Rs. 160 and Rs. 100 referred tointheanswer.
The sale of the premises took place in January, 1920, so that theplaintiff was undoubtedly liable to pay the defendant the rent for themonth of December, 1919, but I do not think he was liable to pay therent for January and February, 1920, to the defendant, for the reasonthat the purchaser of the premises at the sale would have been entitledthereto, and if the plaintiff has recovered the rent for those monthslie will perhaps be called upon by the purchaser to account to himtherefor.
The main point in the case is as to whether the sale which tookplace canbe saidto be one within the meaning of the wordsofthe
lease; thewords are: “ In the event ofthesaleof this propertybythe
lessor . ..’’In my opinion what was intended thereby was
clearly avoluntarysale by the lessor,andnota forced sale.Itwas
undoubtedly not the most honest thing for the defendant to have done,to have mortgaged the premises without notice to the lessee withinless than a ijaonth of the execution of the indenture of the lease, andthen to have made default in payment which resulted in the sale of theleased property, but the words of the lease do not appear to me toindicate that anything but a voluntary sale was contemplated by thewords in question, so that the defendant is not liable to pay* the sum ofRs. 1,500 referred to in the lease as damages.
I holdthereforeon the first issuethatthedefendant is liableto
refund the balance remaining out of the advance of Rs*. 2,600, but notto pay the sum of Rs. 1,500 as damages.
On the second issue I hold that the defendant has repaid to theplaintiff only a sum of Rs. 943.02.
On the third and fourth issues I hold in favour of the plaintiff.
On the sixth issue I hold that there was not a sale within the meaningof the lease.
1088.
Mohideenv.
/My
( 242 )