
( 147 )
MOHIDEEN v. NAMBIRALE et al.
P. C., AnuradAapura, 17,938.
1896.August 12and 1A
“ The Oaths Ordinance, 1895,” ss. 8 and 9—Derisory oath in criminal pro-ceedings—How far it binds the accused—Scope of the Ordinance incriminal matters.
Under “ The Oaths Ordinance, 1895,” when parties to civil-suitsagree to be bound by an oath, it is conclusive ; but it is not so incriminal proceedings.
So, where an accused party offered to he bound by a particularform of oath to be taken by a witness for the prosecution, held, thatthe Court was not right in accepting such offer and convicting theaccused on the evidence given on such oath.
If after evidence is taken on an unusual form of oath, an accusedperson asks to be allowed to withdraw his claim to be tried and toplead guilty, the Court may allow that plea to be recorded and thensentence him ; but so long as the claim to be tried stands, the Courtcannot convict except on sufficient evidence.
All that the Oaths Ordinance does, as to criminal proceedings, isto allow evidence to be given under the sanction of an oath more .particularly binding on the conscience of the witness than the oathor affirmation in ordinary use in our Courts. The effect of theevidence so given is the same as that given after the usualaffirmation has been taken.
HE accused in this case were charged with house-breaking by
night and theft. They claimed to be tried, and in the courseof the trial offered to be bound by the evidence of a witness for theprosecution, if such evidence was given under a particular form ofoath suggested by the accused. The Police Magistrate acceptedthe offer, and on statements made by the witness on the oathsuggested by the accused convicted them. The accused appealed.
Dornhorsl, for appellant.
August 17, 1896. Lawrie, J.—
As the Police Magistrate himself admits this charge of house-breaking by night with theft of property above Rs. 100 ought tohave gone before the District Court, the reasons which inducedthe Magistrate to hold that it could be dealt with by himsummarily are not recorded. I do not know what they were.
A strong case was made against the accused, and they werecalled on for their defence. Their Proctor re-called Banda, .a witness for the prosecution, when the accused said that ifBanda would swear on the Jetawanarama that he saw the threeaccused running away from the direction of the complainant’shouse, they were ready to undergo any punishment the Court mightaward. The Magistrate then sent the accused and the witnessBanda with the Kachcheri Moh’andiram to the Jetawanar&ma.The accused pointed out a spot where Banda should swear, andthen Banda, kneeling down, said : “ On the night of the theft I saw