
Present: Garvin A.J. and Jayewardene A.J.MURUGESU et al v. KASINATHER.
124—D. C, Jaffna, 16,470.
Tesawalamai—Right of husband to deal with the entirety of an acquiredproperty after the death of wife.
Where a husband acquired a property during marriage, hecannot after his wife&apos;s death, leaving children, dispose of theentire property. A half share vests in the heirs of the wife on herdeath.
HE defendant-appellant was the administrator of the estate of
his late mother, Valliammai, who was married to one Kathir-kamer Artunugam. During their marriage on December 13, 1890,the piece of land in dispute in this case was purchased by them, thedeed being in the name of the husband, Arumugam. Valliammaidied in August, 1908. The appellant claimed one-half share Ofthe said piece of land as the theduUketam of the spouses, and includedthe share in the inventory filed in the administration case of herestate, when the plaintiff-respondents, who claimed to have pur-chased the entire land from the appellant’s father, Arumugam, on adeed executed after her death, namely, on October 1, 1908, broughtthis action for declaration of one-half share of the said piece ofland inventoried by the appellant.
The learned District Judge held as follows :—
It is admitted that the vendor to the plaintiff purchased this landduring his marriage with Valliammai. The conveyance, however,*is in favour of Arumugam, the husband of Valliammai and vendor tothe plaintiff.
It is not denied that the plaintiff, who purchased after the death ofValliammai, is a bona fide purchaser for value.
Mr. Duraisamy, who appeared for the plaintiff, argued, on theauthority of 23 N. L. R. 97, that, as the legal title was in Arumugam-at the time of sale, the plaintiff took good title to the entire land.
Mr. Thambyah, on the other hand, argued that this was the acquiredproperty of the spouses ; on the death of Valliammai one-half of itwould, by the rules of the Tesawalamai, devolve on the heirs of Valli-ammai ; and, therefore, at the time of sale by Arumugam-: to theplaintiff, he had title to no more than one-half of the land, and that wasall he could convey.
* I am of opinion, however, that the rule laid down by the Chief Justice,being the latest pronouncement on the subject, should be followed,especially as it is intended to safeguard the interests of purchaser forvalue from persons having the legal title.
The heirs of Valliammai, no doubt, have their remedy againstArumugam for any loss they may have suffered in consequence of thesale to the plaintiff.
On the first, second, and seventh issues I hold in favour of the-plaintiff, and direct that judgment be entered for the plaintiff, with