
c 228 )
1896.
Oot. 4 endRoe. IS.
NICHOLAS DE SILVA v. SHAIK ALI.D. C., Colombo, C 5,684.
Christian marriage—Non-registration—Ordinance No. 6 of 1847—Rei vindi-catio—Alienation by wife of property in community without knowledge ofhusband—Estoppel—Claim by heir to property invalidly sold to ihirdparty—Right of such party to plead the exceptio rei venditae et traditae—Jus retentionis—Rules as to impensse utiles.
The 4 th section of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1847 came into operationwhen Her Majesty’s confirmation of the Ordinance was notified in theGovernment Gazette of 8th December, 1849.
A marriage solemnized by a minister of the Christian religion underthe provisions of that section does not become null and void for want,of registration.
A wife, who lives apart from her husband by mutual consent, cannotvalidly alienate property belonging to the marriage community.
8emble,per Boxser, C.J.—If the husband knew of the sale by his wifeand raised no objection to its completion, he would be estopped fromdenying its validity.
Per Bonser, C.J., and Withers, J. (dissentients Browne, A.J.).—Aclaiming as heir of B a moiety of a property which U in her lifetimehad sold and delivered, without the knowledge of her husband, to C forvalue, may be successfully opposed by C pleading the exceptio rei venditaet traditae.
Where a possessor, who has made improvements on a land believingit to be his own, sells it with the improvements tHreon to another, hemust be taken to have sold with the land the right to such improvements,and with them the right to defend possession of them by every avail-able means, among which is the jus retentionis till the impensee utiles arerefunded.
The jus retinendi passes in the sale from one bona fide possessor to theother without a special cession.
The money which a bona fide possessor pays in discharge of a mortgage,which encumbered the property when it came into his hands, is utilisimpensa.
The rules as to the extent to which the impensa utiles can be recoveredfrom the owner are
When-the outlay has exceeded the permanent advantage to theproperty, the owner is only liable to the extent to which the propertyhas really been rendered more valuable by them.
And not even to that amount if the outlay has been very muchgreater than the owner would himself have made; in which case, it isleft for the judge to determine on a consideration of all the circumstanceeand persons how much should be recovered.
If at the time of the suit the improved value of the propertycaused by the expenditure exceeds the amount so laid out, still only thesum actually expended can be recovered from the owner.
When a claim is made for compensation, an account has to betaken of the mesne profits received ; and only so much of the expen-diture, whether made on the production of the fruits or on theproperty itself, as exceeds the amount of these profits or fructus can beallowed, subject, however, to the preceding rules.
( 229 )
(5) And in taking this account, fruits which hare been consumed as 189S.well as those which are still extant must be set off against the clause for Oct. 4 mudexpenditure. The fruits of the expenditure itself however—-fructus ex Aisc. IS.ipsa meliorations percepti—are to be excluded from the accounting and notto be set off against the claim.
LAINTIFF alleged that one Rodrigo, being the owner of a
certain allotment of land with the buildings thereon, diedintestate in October, 1888, leaving him surviving an only daughter,Johanna; that Johanna married Don Juan Harmanis Appu andcontinued in possession of the said property from 1888 till shedied intestate in November, 1891; that her husband, being entitledto an undivided half of the property, sold his moiety to plaintiffin January, 1894 ; that plaintiff was appointed administrator ofJohanna&apos;s estate in April, 1894; and that defendant held unlawfulpossession ■ of the property since January, 1894, and refused todeliver it to plaintiff. He prayed, for himself and as administratorof Johanna&apos;s estate, for a declaration of title to the whole of thesaid property and for ejectment and damages.
The defendant, admitting that Rodrigo was the original ownerand Johanna was his daughter, denied the other allegations ofthe plaintiff, and pleaded that Rodrigo mortgaged the property toone Silva Mudaliyar in January, 1888; that after the death of bothRodrigo and Silva Mudaliyar, Johanna, who was the wife of oneCarolis Silva (and not Harmanis Appu as alleged by plaintiff), soldit to Celestina Hamine in December, 1888, and out of the proceedsof the sale paid the amount of the mortgage to the administratorof Silva Mudaliyar; that Celestina Hamine sold the property to oneAhamat in September, 1893, who sold it to defendant in December,1893; and that Celestina, Ahamat, and the defendant effected insuccession necessary repairs and useful improvements at acost of Rs. 2,000. Defendant prayed that plaintiff&apos;s action bedismissed, or in the event of the plaintiff being declared entitledto any interest in the said property, it be further declared that hebe not entitled to the possession thereof as against the defendantuntil plaintiff paid to defendant the amount of the mortgage debtpaid to the administrator of Silva Mudaliyar, with interest, andthe sum of Rs. 2,000 expended for repairs and improvements asaforesaid.
Upon evidence taken and considered, the Acting District Judgo(Mr. Grenier) found that Johanna was lawfully married to DonJuan on the 28th October, 1850, at the Roman Catholic Church atPeliyagoda ; that after the solemnization of the marriage they livedtogether as man and wife ; that they subsequently separated bymutual consent, when Johanna lived with Carolis Appu ; that theplaintiff was the issue of the latter union ; that Johanna and Don