
( 102 )
1895.
July JO, 11.
Forest Ordinance, 1885—Rule made under chapter IV.—Clearing land forchena cultivation—Land at the disposal of the Crown—Evidence.
On a charge laid nnder rule 1 of the rules framed under chapter IV.of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, that the accused cleared a land at thedisposal of the Crown without a permit from the Government Agent,it is necessary to prove that the land was cleared for chena cultivation,that such land was at the disposal of the Crown, and that it was notwithin a reserved or village forest.
SembU,per Bonser, C.J.—The only intelligible way of interpreting theexpression “ land at the disposal of the Crown ” in the interpretationclause is to read clauses (h), (c), and (d) as cutting down the generality
NUGAP1TIYA MUHANDIRAM v. SUDALAYANDI -et al.P. 0., Kegalla, 18,150.
( 103 )
of the definition given in clause (a), so that the meaning of that expres- 1895.sion would appear to be all forest, waste, unoccupied, or uncultivatedland, which has not been expressly granted away by the Crown (clausei), or in respect of which the Crown has not waived its right byissuing its certificate of no claim (clause c), or which has not beenregistered a temple land (clause d).
HE plaint charged the accused with unlawfully and wilfully,
and without obtaining the permission of the GovernmentAgent of the Province of Sabaragamuwa or of the AssistantGovernment Agent of Kegalla, clearing or causing to be cleared forcheua cultivation the land called Galpilleheressa, being a land atthe disposal of the Crown, and not included in a reserved or villageforest, in breach of rule 1 of the rules framed under chapter IV.of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, Ac.
Rule 1 (published in the Gazette of 22nd March, 1889) was asfollows : “No land at the disposal of the Crown shall be cleared“ for chena cultivation without a permit from the Government“ Agent,” Ac.
After evidence heard for complainant and the accused, thePolice Magistrate found both the accused guilty of “clearing a“ land at the disposal of the Crown, to wit, Galpilleheressa, for“ chena cultivation without a permit,” Ac., and sentenced them toa fine of Rs. 30 and Rs. 5 respectively.
The accused appealed.
Bawa, for appellant, contended (1) that rule No. 1, upon whichthe conviction was founded, was ultra vires of section 41 (a),for while the rule provided against “ clearing for chena culti-vation,” the Ordinance empowered the making of rules for onlyregulating or prohibiting the cutting of or setting fire to chenas ;
that there was no evidence that the land which had beencleared was not included in a reserved or village forest; and (3)that there was no evidence that the appellant had himselfcommitted the offence complained of.
Ramanathan, S.-G., for the Crown : The terms of rule 1are practically the same as the terms of section 41 (a). “ Clear-“ ing for chena cultivation ” involves the operation of “ cutting ”and “ setting fire ” to chenas, and as the Gazette whichpublished the rule sets forth that rule 1 and certain other rulesfollowing it were made under section 41, the words “ clearing forchena cultivation ” should be taken to mean cutting and settingfire to the chena named in the plaint. Rule 1 is therefore intravires. [Bonser, C.J.—But is the land “ at the disposal of the“ Crown ? ”] Yes, because it is proved that it was forest before the