
( 209 1
Present. Schneider J. and Jayewardene A.J.
1923.
PALANIAPPA CHETTY v. MORTIMER.
178—Z>. C. Kandy, 29,887.
Civil Procedure Code, s. 34—Cause of action—Debt due on.accountstated—Note given by son for father&apos;s debt—Action on the noteagainst son—Subsequent action against administrator of father&apos;sestate on account stated—Deposit—Ait aha earnest money.
T owed plaintiff Rs. 4,000 on an account stated. T’a son gavea note for this sum to secure the amount due by T. Plaintiffobtained judgment against T’s son on the note. T died leavingan insolvent estate, and a meeting of the creditors exceedingsix-sevenths in number, including plaintiff, was held, and all thecreditors agreed to take a transfer of an estate in shares pro-portionate to their claims in discharge thereof. Plaintiff subse-quently backed out, and the estate was transferred to the othercreditors, leaving out plaintiff’s share. Plaintiff sued the adminis-.trator on account stated for Rs. 4,000.
Held, that section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code did not barthe action, as the cause of action against T’s son and against theadministrator was not the same within the meaning of section 34.
Plaintiff did not forfeit the money due to him from the adminis-trator of T’s estate by reason of his backing out of the sale.
Money of the purchaser lying in the hands of the vendor, andnot given as a deposit or agreed to be treated as a deposit cannotbe regarded as a deposit, “ earnest,” or “ arraha ” given on theoccasion of the agreement to purchase; and cannot, therefore, beforfeited if the sale falls through owing to the default of thepurchaser.
The provision of section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code, whichenacts that for purpose of this section “ an obligation and acollateral security foi its performance shall be deemed to constituteone cause of action ” refers to cases where an obligation is incurredand the collateral security is given by the same person or persons.
N this case plaintiff sued the defendant for a sum of Rs. 4,000
on an account stated on June 15, 1918, between plaintiff andthe late Thewaraya Pillai, with interest and costs.
The defendant pleaded that the promissory note sued upon inDistrict Court of Kandy, case No. 29,065, had been made in favourof the plaintiff in this case by the deceased Thewaraya Pillai’s son,
T.A. Periasamy Pillai, in satisfaction of the above debt, and thatthe judgment in such case No. 29,065 was a bar to plaintiff’s claim.
The defendant pleaded in the alternative that the plaintiff hadcompromised the said claim by an agreement entered into by himon February 18, 1922, and that he was estopped by reason of suchcompromise from suing on the account stated.