
( 349 )
Present : Jayewavdene A.J.
1924.
PANNA ALLLAR LEBBE et ah157—G. R&apos; Anuradhapura, 12,420*
Unlawful arrest—Money paid to obtain release—Actum maintainable.
An action may be maintained to recover noToney paid to obtainone&apos;s release from illegal arrest and detention.
PPEAL from a judgment of the Commissioner of Bequests,
Anuradhapura. The plaintiff, a Moorish trader, sued thedefendants for damages for false imprisonment and for therecovery of a sum of Bs. 87.50 paid to the first and second defend-ants, who are headmen, to obtain his release from unlawful arrestand detention by them on a false charge of the theft of-a bullbelonging to the third defendant laid against the plaintiff. Thelearned Commissioner held that the defendants had falselyimprisoned the plaintiff and certain others, and had released themon the payment of a sum of money by each of them, viz., Bs. 37.50,and gave judgment for the plaintiff. It was contended in appealthat even if such sum of money was paid to the defendant, it couldnot be recovered, as it was paid in pursuance of an unlawful agree-ment—an agreement void as being against public policy.
Drieberg, K.G. (with him H. V. Perera), for defendants, appellants.
James Joseph, for plaintiff, respondent.
September 9, 1924. Jayewardene A.J.—
In this case the defendants who have been condemned to paydamages to the plaintiff for false imprisonment and to return themoney paid to them to obtain his release from imprisonmentappeal against the judgment. The plaintiff is a Moorish villagerfrom Puttur, a remote village in the North-Central Province. Thefirst and second defendants are headmen, the second of the plaintiff&apos;svillage, and the other of an adjoining village. The third defendant is.a villager who at this time had lost a bull. &apos; The case for the plaintiffis that the first and second defendants, on the complaint of the thirddefendant that he had lost a bull, came to his residing land to makeinquiries. Some beef was found in the house of the plaintiff and inthose of five others. They explained that the beef was the flesh ofa bull belonging to Uduma Lebbe which he had slaughtered.This was found to be so on inquiry. The headmen arrested theplaintiff and the others in whose houses beef was found, and detained