
( 260 )
1926.
Present: Branch C.J. and Maartensz A.J.
JfAULU v. RENGISHAMY.
137—D. C. Galle, 22,221.
Partition action—Commission to partition—Notice by the Commissionerto the public—Ordinance No. 10 of 1863, s. 6.
In a partition action the notice given by the Commissioner, interms of the proviso to section 5 of the Ordinance, of his intentionto partition the land, must be a notice to the public.
It is net a sufficient compliance with the terms of the sectionto give such notice to the parties only.
The failure to give such notice to the public deprives a partitiondecree of its conclusive character.
A
PPEAL from an order of the District Judge of Galle refusingthe appellant to intervene in an action for the partition of
a land called Galpotte-elamanana. The appellant moved to setaside the final decree either by way of appeal or in revision on theground, among others, that the Commissioner who was appointed tocarry out the commission had nob complied with the terms of section5 of the Partition Ordinance, in that no notice as required by theproviso to that section was given. It would .seem that no noticewas fixed on the land ; there was no beat of tom-tom ; and thesurvey was held on April 4, 1925, while the commission issued onlyon March 13, 1925.
Soertsz, for intervenient, appellant.
J. S. Jayeicardene (with him Croos Da Brera),i or plaintiff,respondent.
February 26, 1926. Branch C.J.—
This was a partition action in which the appellant madeapplication to intervene. The learned District Judge refused theapplication as a final decree had already been entered, and thisCourt is asked to set aside the final decree either by way of appealor in revision. No action has been taken on the decree. Theintervenient-appellant, hereinafter called the appellant, wouldappear to be entitled to a portion of the lapd, which is the subjectof the partition proceedings, and her case is that she has beenfraudulently kept out of the partition proceedings by the, plaintiffand the defendant in the Court below, who have acted in collusion in
( 261 )
order to deprive her of her rights. The following are the principalgrounds on which Mr. Soertsz, counsel for the appellant, relies forsetting aside the decree :—
(i.) The provisions of section 5 of the Partition Ordinance, 10 of1863, have not been complied with, in that no such noticeas that required by the proviso to section 5 was given.No notice was affixed on the land; there was no beat oftom-tom ; and the survey was held on April 4, 1925, whilethe commission issued on March 13, 1925.
(ii.) The final decree was entered in respect of a land differentfrom that proposed for partition.