
( 89 )
Present: Jayewardene and Garvin A.JJ.
PEDBIS et al. v. BATCHA et al.
439—D. C. Colombo, 2,388.
Excavation by adjoining landowner—Right to lateral support—Buildings—Prescription—Housing Ordinance, No. 19 of 1915—English,law—Roman-Dutch, law .
Plaintiff and defendant were adjoining landowners. The mostreasonable use to which plaintiff’s land could be put was for buildingson it. The defendant dug up his land to a depth of 15 feet up toand along plaintiff’s boundary. The plaintiff alleged that bis landhad become unfit to support a building if put up within 7 feet of hisboundary and claimed damages.
Held, that plaintiff was not entitled to damages.
A
PPEAL bom a judgment of the Additional District Judge,Colombo (W. S. de Saram, Esq.):—
The facts are set out in the judgment of Jayewardene A.J.
Hayley (with him L. H. de Alwis), for appellants.—The District-Judge has found that the first defendant, respondent, as lessee under-the second and third defendants, respondents, has deprived theappellant’s land of lateral support, but he has held that the respond-ents are not liable in damages, following the English law as laiddown in Dalton v. Angus 1 and Bonomi v. Backhouse.* Althoughthis point has not been decided by any previous decision of this Court,it is the Boman-Dutch law principles that are applicable to thepresent case. The natural use to which the appellant’s land can beput is to build on it. An adjoining neighbour has no right toexcavate his land in such a manner as to deprive his adjoining land-owner of the natural use of his land. The English law grants aremedy only after actual damage has been caused to the land of theadjoining owner, but under the Boman-Dutch law a cause of actionarises as soon as the excavation is made. Under the Boman-Dutchlaw the right of lateral support extends to the support of the neigh-bour’s land burdened with buildings, which under the English lawis treated as an easement acquirable only by grant or prescription.Counsel cited Nathan, vol. I., section 704; London and SouthAfrican Exploration Go. v. Rouliots; Voet 10, 1, 12; MaasdorpInstitutes of Cape Law, vol. II., p. 98, and Johannesberg Board ofExecutors and Trust Co. v. Victoria Buildings*
Samarawickrema, for first defendant, respondent.—The principlesof English law are applicable in the present case. &apos;See Weetasiri v.Sanchihamy.s It was held in that case that the plaintiff bad not
1 (1881) 6 A. C. 740.
• 9. H. L. C. SOS.
1984.
(1892) 2 S. C. R., 96.
* 8 S.G. 74.
*1 Off Rapp. 49.
( 90 )
1924. proved that he had acquired a right to lateral support by prescription.
Pedrisv. Voet 10, 2, 12 does not contain any general principles. He merelyBofcfca shows that according to the Boman law certain distances shouldbe kept between buildings and neighbouring boundaries accordingto particular local regulations. Nathan, vol. I., section 704, is notan authority for the proposition that the right to lateral supportattaches to buildings. It is doubtful if this right is recognized evenin South Africa. The maxim Sic utere tuo, <£c., applies to a case likethis, and a landowner may lawfully dig upon his own &apos;ground to anydepth, provided he causes no damage to his neighbour&apos;s land.Under the local Housing of People and Improvement of TownsOrdinance, No. 19 of 1915, in cases like this, it is required that anopen space of 1 feet at least should intervene between a buildingand an abutting wall. The experts called in this case have givenevidence to the effect that the appellant could safely put up a build-ing within 7 feet of his boundary. Counsel also cited West LeighCollierif Co. v. Tunnicliffe and Hampson, Ltd.1; 10 Halsbury, section310; and 11 Halsbury, sections 319 and 325.
M, B, A. Cadert for second and third defendants, respondents.—In any case, the lessors are not liable. They are not joint tortfeasors. A lessee is not the agent of his lessor. The principlesof the Boman-Dutch law and the English law are identical ojx thispoint. Wille on Landlord and Tenant, p. 24, et&apos;seq.
Hayley, for* appellants, in reply.
t
July 3, 1924. Jayewardene A.J.—