
PERIS et al. v. PERERA et al.D. C., Colombo, 4,981 jG.Partition—Ordinance No. 10 of 1883, et. 4, 8, 9—Interlocutory judgment inaction for partition—Final decree, effect of—Duty of Court in partitionsuits—Proof of title of co-oumers—Adding parties—Proceeding whereall co-ownert cannot be ascertained.
The effect of section 9 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1863 is to give personstaking title under the decree in an action for partition nnder thatOrdinance a title good against the trne owner, bnt the decree referred&apos;to in that section is not the interlocutory decree of partition nndersection 4, bnt the final judgment nnder section 6 awarding shares inseveralty, and entered after receipt of the return of the commissionfor partition.
The Court should not regard a partition suit as one to be decidedmerely on issues raised by and between the parties, and it ought not tomake a decree, unless it is perfectly satisfied that the persons in whosefavour the decree is asked for are entitled to the property sought to bepartitioned..
After the Court is satisfied that the plaintiff has made ont his title tothe share claimed by him, it should direct yiquiries to be made whetherall the parties interested in the land are parties to the action, or havebeen served with notice, and, on being satisfied on these points, ordera partition or sale.
If all the parties cannot be found, the Court may allot severallythe shares of the persons who have proved their rights to them, and may
( 363 )
sell the remainder of the lend, retaining the balance of the purchase 18M.money, after payment thereout of a proportionate share of the coats of April 1 sadthe action, until the owners come forward and prove their title to it.t.
Dictum of Pheab, C. J., in Auena Uarikar v. Utubu Lebbe, 1 8.C.C.
19, disapproved.
Per B0N8EK, G.J.—(1) The District Judge should take care thatthe inquiry in a partition suit is not a perfunctory one. It is onlyafter he is reasonably satisfied that all the owners who can be found areparties to the action, using, if neoessary for the purpose, the powergiven him by section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code, that he shouldmake hia decree declaring that the parties are entitled to certain shares,and directing a partition or sale, as the case may be.
(2) An interlocutory decree for partition under section 4 of the Ordi-nance, unless proceeded with, is useless for any purpose. It could noteven support a plea of re* judicata. Where such an interlocutory decreehas been made, and not proceeded with, section 402 of the CivilProcedure Code should be applied by the Court, and its rolls clearedof the action.
Per Withers, J.—Claimants of shares who may have had notice ofthe proceedings only when the commissioner had taken steps to preparehis return should be let in, and their claims inquired into even if itBhould happen that they purport to modify the interlocutory judgmentas to the shares of the actual parties to the record. After hearing thenew claimants and the former parties, the Court may reform its inter-locutory judgment.
LAINTIFFS claimed an undivided three-fourths share of
certain lands by right of inheritance from one Naide.They averred in their plaint that the defe ndants -were entitledto the remaining fourth, and prayed for a partition of the landsbetween them and the defendants. The lands originally belongedto one Adohami and his wife Bancho. Adohami died leavingfive children, two sons and three daughters; and the plaintiffsaverred that the two sons possessed the lands to the exclusionof the daughters. Naide was one of those two sons. Banchogifted her half to Naide, and he and his brother Simitchi thusbecame entitled to the entirety of the lands in the proportion ofthree-fourths and one-fourth. Naide died leaving eight children,six daughters and two sons—to wit, the two plaintiffs; and theplaintiffs alleged that they possessed the three-fourths share towhich Naide was entitled to the exclusion of their sisters. Thedefendants, they averred, were, as the descendants of Simitchi,entitled to the remaining fourth. Certain added parties to theBuit claimed a divided portion of thq lands. The District Judge,after trial, rejected their claims, and decreed a partition as prayedfor in the plaint. •
Tho added parties appealed.
Dornhorst and Jayewardene, for appellants.
Wendt, for plaintiffs, respondents.