
( 42 )
1900.
July ir.
PUNCHI KIRA v. SANGU et al.
C. R., Galagcclara, 1,052.
Hypothecary action—Civil Procedure Code, as. 640-642.
A hypothecary action is not properly constituted unless the mortgagor,if ho is alive, is a party. If he is dead, his executor or administratormust be made a party, or some person appointed by the Court to representhis estate.
Per Bonsisr, C.J.—At the time of the passing of this Code the lawwas that the mortgagee was entitled to two actions upon the mortgagebond : a personal action against the mortgagor for the debt, andsecondly, the actio qtiasi Serviana, commonly called an hypothecaryaction, against the land to have the land sold for the purpose of realiz-ing the debt; and when the mortgagor was in possession of immovableproperty he might bring both the personal and the hypothecary actionsimultaneously and join them in one libel. If the property was in thehands of a thi.d person—if, for instance, the mortgagor had sold theland—then the mortgagee had the choice of suing the debtor by thepersonal action, or the person in possession of the property by thehypothecary action, and he could sue them in any order he pleased.
But section 640 of the Civil Procedure Code plainly intended to alterthat procedure. It took away the right of suing a third person inpossession of the property by the hypothecary action without joiningthe mortgagor for it, and provided that in every hypothecary action themortgagor must be joined as a defendant, whether he is in possession ornot of the property mortgaged at the time of the action.
Scope of sections 641 and 642 explained.
HR plaintiff sued the defendants for the recovery of a sum of
Rs. 140 due on a mortgage bond dated 18th December, 1878,executed in his favour by one Hawadia, deceased, who was thefather of the first, second, and third defendants; and the plaintiffclaimed a further sum of Rs. 50 as damages in consequenceof the fourth and fifth defendants having forcibly ousted theplaintiff from the mortagaged field, of which the plaintiff alleged hewas in possession. The defendants denied the execution of themortgaged bond and the plaintiff’s possession of the mortgagedfield and pleaded prescription. The Commissioner enteredjudgment for the plaintiff, holding that the bond was executed byHawadia; that as the plaintiff was a usufructuary mortgagee thebond was not prescribed; that Rs. 140 were due as principal fromthe first, second, and third defendants, as heirs of Hawadia; andthat Rs. 50 were due from all the defendants as damages arisingfrom the Ouster.
The decree entered in the case was as follows:—“ It is ordered“ and decreed that the plaintiff do recover from the defendants the“ sum of Rs. 190. It is further ordered that the defendants do pay“ to the plaintiff the costs of this action Rs. 32.25, and it is further