
( 218 )
1900.
July a.
QUEEN v. FERNANDO et al.D. C., Kegalla, 1,006.
Criminal Procedure Code, s. 440 (7)—Summary punishment for false evidence
in open Court—Irregularity—Evidence.
&apos;Where a witness stated in the Police Court that the third accusedpulled the complainant out of the house, and in the District Court thatthe fourth accused did so, and the District Judge found him guilty ofcontempt of Court under section 440 (1) of the Criminal ProcedureCode,—
Held, that if the evidence given in the Police Court was false, theDistrict Judge had no jurisdiction to punish the witness for it.
The mere fact that .a-statement made before the District Judge doesnot accord with, and is even altogether inconsistent with, a statementmade by him in a Police Court, is no evidence that the witness hascommitted perjury in the District Court.
In- proceeding under section 440 (1), it is the duty of the DistrictJudge to find which of the statements made by the witness in the twoCourts is false.
And the District Judge has no right to re-model the evidence givenby a witness in a Police Court in order to convict him of perjury.
N this case of robbery and voluntarily causing hurt the District
Judge, after hearing the witnesses for the prosecution,recorded his opinion as follows:—
“ I will not call upon the accused for their defence, as the
evidence for the prosecution appears to be unreliable. The wit-“ nesses give a different version to the version given by them in“ the Police Court. I therefore acquit and discharge the accused.”
The District Judge then called upon three of these witnessesto show cause why they should not be convicted of contempt ofCourt (under section 440 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code) fordeliberately giving false evidence within the meaning of section188 of the Penal Code. He read out to each of them the contra-dictory statements made by them before him and the committingMagistrate.
They had no cause to show.
He found them guilty of contempt of Court and sentenced eachof them to a fine of Rs. 25, in default whereof to one month’srigorous imprisonment.
Two of these witnesses appealed.
E. Jayawardena, for appellants.
Bonser, C.J., quashed the conviction and acquitted the appel-lants by the following judgments:—
In this case the appellant Appuhamv gave evidence for theprosecution at a criminal trial in the District Court of Kegalla.