
( 7® )
Present: Bertram C.J. an<l Ennis J.&apos;jiAMEN CHETTY v. MACKWOOD, LTD.77—D. C. Kegalla, 5,781.
Action against, agents of an estate for money advanced to superintendent—■Motion to add proprietors as added defendants—Civil ProcedureCode, ss. 14 and 18—Numerous proprietors out of the Island-Service of summons—Application by plaintiff to appoint some oneproprietor to defend the action on behalf of all—Names of severalproprietors unknown—Civil. Procedure Code, ss. 16, 25, and 65.
Plaintiff sued the defendant company, who^ were agents ofCottangala estate, for the recovery of money advanced to thesuperintendent for the benefit of the estate. The defendantcompany denied responsibility.Plaintiffthereuponmovedto
add the proprietors as defendants.»
Held, that the cause of action against the defendant companyand the proprietors were the same, and that the proprietors, mightbe added as defendants.
Both the defendant company, and the proprietors could havebeen joined originally .under section 14 ,, of the Civil Procedure Code.Section 18 must be construed as enabling an addition to be made ofany party who might, for the purpose of determining the cause ofaction, have been originally joined under section 14.
The co-proprietors of the estate were numerous, and the defend-ant company did not know who most of them were. The SupremeCourt gave permission to the plaintiff to make an application for thejoinder of such of the proprietors as he may*, nominate, and for leaveto sue them as representing themselves and the other co-proprietorsunder section 18. Notice was also directed to be given to all theproprietors by advertisement in the papers.
The application for the appoinment of certain persons to sueor to be sued in a representative capacity, under section 16 of theCivil Procedure Code, need not proceed from those persons them-selves. It may be made by persons seeking to sue them, andeven in the face of the opposition of a person sought to be made
1928.
( 74 )
representative. It is net necessary in an application for thispurpose to specify by name ail the persons to be represented. It issufficient to describe them generally, and leave them, if necessary,to be subsequently ascertained.
HE facts appear from the judgment.
Samardwichfeme (with him Canakaratne), for the appellant.
Hay ley, for the respondent. – .
October 6, 1922. Bertram C.J.— *
This is an. appeal against an order of the District Court of Kegallarefusing an application by. the plaintiff for the joinder of certainparties as defendants. The plaintiff is a Chetty, who made certainadvances to one Lloyd Perera, who wets at the -time the superin-tendent of Cottangala estate. .He claims that those advances weremade in pursuance of an authority granted to the said Lloyd Pereraby the defendant company who are the agents of the estate, andthat the defendant company acquiesced in those advances, andthat they were so advanced for the benefit of the estate. On thosegrounds he sues the defendant company. The defendant companyby their answer plead that the. plaint discloses no cause of actionagainst them. They- admit that they .are the agents of Cottangalaestate, but deny that they are in -any. /way responsible for anyliabilities incurred on behalf of the estate. They also traverse■ generally the allegations of the plaintiff. On this answer beingfiled, the plaintiff sought to add as defendants the proprietors of theestate, to whose existence the answer had drawn fuller – attention,and it was for this purpose that an application was made to theCourt below. The plaint in the action, which seeks to fix thedefendant company with liability, is certainly open to criticism, andif it means to charge them with liability on the ground that they
, are the local agents of a principal outside the jurisdiction, it clearlyought to have been made more explicit. But this is a point withwhich it is not necessary to concern ourselves. The only questionthat we have" to determine, in the first instance, is whether theproprietors should be joined as parties.
Mr Hayley appears on behalf of the defendant company andobjects to this proposed joinder. His objection is that, while- no doubt the Code authorizes the joinder of defendants, it onlyauthorizes such a joinder in respect of the same cause of action. Hesays that his own liability, if any, with respect to this money ariseson a different cause of action from any supposed liability that mayexist in the- proprietors. He urges – incidentally that the liabilityof the proprietors, if any such liability exists, is for the returnof the money lent, whereas the liability against him, if any, is aliability for breach of a warranty of authority.