
( 225" )
ROWEL APPUHAMY et al. v. MOISES APPU et al.
D. C., Chilaw, 1,450.
Action for possession 6f trees planted on another&apos;s land—Interest in land—Crop
severed from trees—Evidence of dispossession—Possessory suit.
Possession of trees standing on another’s land is an interest in immov-able property, but when the nuts are picked the crop "becomes movableproperty.
Proof that defendant carried away nuts lying on the ground withoutgiving a share thereof to his co-sharer, the plaintiff, and disputed plaintiff’sright thoreto, is sufficient evidence of dispossession to justify a possessoryaction.
A possessory action is inappropriate where the defendant is admittedlya co-owner. If co-owners cannot agree as to the exercise of the commonrights, the only appropriate remedy is an action for partition.
Jayasuriya v. Omer Lebbe—2 C. L, R. (6) explained.
LAINTIFFS, alleging that they were the owners of an
“ undivided half share, by right of purchase and prescriptive“ possession, of all that cocoanut and other productive trees stand-“ ing ” on a certain land belonging to the heirs of one SenaviratneMudaliyar, and that defendants “ unlawfully entered, the said“ land on the 6th February, 1896, and removed 54 cocoanuts there-“ from which had been gathered by the plaintiffs from the trees“ belonging to them, and that since such unlawful entry and“ removal the defendants have been in possession of half of the“ said trees,” prayed “ for a declaration of title to an undivided half“ share of the cocoanut and other productive trees on the said“ land ” and for damages.
Defendants denied plaintiffs’ right as owners, and pleaded thatthe first defendant was owner of one-fourth share of the trees inquestion under a deed of sale, and that his vendor had plantedthe land for the heirs of Senaviratne Mudaliyar, and had so becomeentitled to the said one-fourth share- as planted, and they prayedfor a dismissal of plaintiffs’ case.
The issues settled were: —■
Whether plaintiffs and their vendor had been in prescriptivepossession of a half of the trees in question.
Whether the defendants unlawfully removed 54 nutsfrom the said trees and held forcible possession of same since 6thFebruary, 1896.
The District Judge, after hearing the evidence of the secondplaintiff only (which was to the effect that he entered intopossession from the date of his purchase, and that he plucked allthe nuts and gave a moiety thereof to the landowners, and that
ll-BR 19790 (12/66)
1899.
January 14
and 28.