
( 345 )
Present : De Sampayo J.
RUPASINGHE v. FERNANDO.35 and 36—0. B. Kalutara, 7,615.
Judgment against a minor—Seizure of propertyunder writ—Claim
unsuccessful—Actionunder s.247, Civil ProcedureCode—May
unsuccessful claimant attack the judgment sought to be executed asinvalid on the ground of minority of defendant?
In an action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code by anunsuccessful claimant, the plaintiff and the representatives of thedeceased judgment-debtor attacked the validity of the judgmentsought to be executed on the ground that the judgment-deb torwas a minor.
Held, the judgment entered against the minor, though unrepre-sented by a guardian, was at most an irregularity, and that it wasnot open to a collateral attack. Though the plaintiff was not aparty to that action, he cannot attack the judgment in that casein this action under section 247.
&apos;“J1 HE facts are set out in the judgment.
A. St. V. Jayawardene, for plaintiff, appellant in appeal No. 35.
Bawa, K.C., for added defendants, appellants in appeal No. 36.
Samarawickreme (with him Weeraratne), for the first defendant^respondent in both appeals.
March 28, 1918. De Sampayo J.—
In the action No. 6,157, D. C. Kalutara, the first defendant-respondent obtained a decree for money against one KatirikankangeyStephen, and under a writ of execution issued in that case he causedto be seized on July 11, 1915, one-twentieth share of a certain landand buildings as the property of Stephen, and the sale was fixed forOetober 31, 1916. The plaintiff claimed the said share of land andbuildings by virtue of a deed of transfer executed in his favour byStephen on August 12, 1916. The plaintiff’s claim was disallowed&apos;,by the Court, and he brought this action, under section 247 of theCivil Procedure Code, to establish his right to the property. Stephendied before the date of this action, and the added defendants, whoare his heirs, have been made parties to the action. The first defend-ant impeaches the deed in favour of the plaintiff as a fraudulentalienation, and both the plaintiff and the added defendants attackthe validity of the judgment sought to be executed by the first,defendant on the ground that Stephen was a minor.
IMS.
( 346 )
1918.