
( 106 )
1900.
June 18.
SAMARAWEEEA v. JAYAWARDANA.
D. C., Matara, 8,133.
Action for divorce—Vagueness of allegation of misconduct—Judgment of District
Judge founded on evidence heard by another District Judge—Irregularity
—Courts Ordinance, s. 89.
An allegation of misconduct, in an action for divorce, ought tospecify the date and place of the act complained of.
Though The Courts Ordinance, section 89, provides that in the case ofa removal of a judge, while the suit is pending, another judge may takeup the case and act on the evidence already recorded, yet such a courseshould not be followed except where such evidence is of a merely formalcharacter.
In a case where the decision depends altogether upon the credit to begiven to the plaintiff and his witnesses, it is not proper for a judge whohas not heard the plaintiff and his witnesses to decide on their veracityand trustworthiness, when he has the means in his power of judgingfor himself by calling and examining them.
HIS was an action for a divorce on the ground of adultery of
the first defendant (plaintiff&apos;s wife) with the seconddefendant. No specific act of adultery was charged, but the fol-lowing averment was made in the plaint:—“ Since the last few“ months the fifth defendant has been living in adultery with the“ second defendant, and she also threatens and abuses the plaintiff,“ and has often attempted to strike and injure him.” The firstdefendant pleaded that the plaint was insufficient and vague, in thatit did not state the date when, or place where, the alleged acts ofmisconduct were committed. She denied the general charge ofadultery alleged against her, and averred that plaintiff himselfwas living in adultery with a certain woman.
The case came on for hearing before Mr. G. Woodhouse, who,after recording evidence for the plaintiff, did not call upon thedefendants for the defence, as he thought that the evidenceadduced was too vague and indefinite to prove adultery. Hedismissed the plaintiff’s action.
On appeal, the Supreme Court was of opinion that the plaintiffhad made out a •primd facie case, and that the District Judgeought to have called on the defendants to lead evidence. TheirLordships sent the case back for further trial, with certain direc-tions as to the proof of marriage between the plaintiff and firstdefendant.
The further trial came on -before Mr. W. E. Thorpe, who.having heard two witnesses for the plaintiff and the first and