
( 95 )
SARAM v. WEERA.P. C., Colombo, 37,639.
Criminal Procedure Code, chapters XVI. and XIX.—Change of proceedingfrom inquiry into trial—Criminal Procedure Code, s. 226 (OrdinanceNo. 22 of 1890, s. 7)—Right of Police Magistrate to convict uponevidence taken in a case which he has no power to try.
In proceedings taken under chapter XYI. of the Criminal ProcedureCode, a Police Magistrate has to take and record evidence for theprosecution with the view of ascertaining whether there is such a primdfacie case made out against the accused as could justify him in commit-ting the accused for trial to a Superior Court, and not to determine hisguilt or innocence which is in issue only in trials under chapter XIX.
Where, in the course of proceedings initiated under chapter XYX, aMagistrate finds that the facte proved amount to an offence triable byhim summarily under chapter XIX., the proper course is to stay
( 96 )
proceedings on the inquiry, frame a fresh charge, and try the ease,giving the accused notice that he is on his trial, and affording himsufficient time to prepare his defence.
Section 226 of the Code (as amended by Ordinance No. 22 of 1890)refers to cases where a Police Magistrate is trying a case over which hehas jurisdiction, and not to cases where he is not acting as Judge, but asan inquirer. Its import is that, when a Judge is trying a case and findsthat the charge laid was not correctly framed according to the factswhich appear in evidence before him, but that some other offence overwhich he has jurisdiction is proved, he may convict of that offence.
Facts which appear in the depositions of witnesses taken, not for thepurpose of a trial, but for the purpose of an inquiry, cannot be saidto be proved for the purpose of a conviction.
HE accused in this case was charged at the instance of the
Superintendent of Police under section 392 of the Penal Codewith criminal breach of trust as a public servant, in that, whileacting as storekeeper of the Police Department, he was entrustedwith a sum of Rs. 100, whereof he misappropriated a sum ofRs. 86. On being brought up on a warrant, the Police Magistrateexplained the charge to the accused, who stated he was not guilty.Evidence was taken on a subsequent day and a charge formulated.
The Police Magistrate then recorded as follows:—
Accused denies the charge. Mr. Advocate Bawa, for accused, addresses theCourt on the question of jurisdiction, and the question of the innocence of
the accused  Counsel has quoted a case in the Indian Courts, in
which a public servant, who had been entrusted with the care of stamps, theproperty of the Government, with the full knowledge and consent of hissuperior officers, had misappropriated those stamps to his own use, washeld guilty of criminal breach of trust as a public servant—an offencepunishable under section 392 of the Ceylon Penal Code, and not withinthe jurisdiction of a Police Court; but in that case it was decided that theresponsibility for the due custody of the stamps had been properly delegated.In another case reported in the same book submitted to me, in which respon-sibility had been improperly delegated, it was held that the delinquent couldnot be charged with criminal breach of trust as a public servant. It is forthis reason, “ that the responsibility delegated to the accused Weera hasbeen most improperly delegated,” that I overrule the argument against myjurisdiction.
Accused was a Very subordinate clerk on small pay ; he was bookkeeperand storekeeper, and as such his duties were to keep books and keep stores ;it was no part of his duty to handle Government moneys, and when allowedto do so by his superiors he lay under no responsibility to Government forany misappropriation of Government money; the fact that his immediatesuperiors had allowed him and his predecessor in office to handle publicmoneys cannot affect the propriety of his being allowed to do so. The pro-ceedings disclose the existence of a good deal of laxity in money mattersin the office of the Superintendent of Police, Western Province, but Icannot allow this laxity to render the accused not liable to conviction on thevery grave charge of criminal breach of trust as a public servant. Regard-ing the guilt of the accused the evidence is clear, and calls for no remarks.
The Police Magistrate found the accused guilty, under section391, and sentenced him to three months’ rigorous imprisonment.