
( 471 )
Present: Wood Benton C.J. and Shaw J.SABANAMKABA v. KXFUBABAY.85—D. V. Anuradhapura, 695.
i
Defamation—Reportby , headman to Government Agent
defamatory statements — Privilege — Malice — Notice ofCivil Procedure Code, e. 461.
WBare the defendant, a headman, was called upon to report asto the plaintiff’s allegations against him, and he went out of hisway to .make a number of gratuitous charges against the plaintiff •in the report sent by him to the Government Agent,—
Held, that the communication was not an absolutely privilegedone.
A report of this character enjoys only a qualified privilege, whichis rebutted by proof of malice.
fJlHE facts appear from the judgment.
A. St. V. Jayewardene, for defendant, appellant.—The report in.question was made by the defendant in his capacity as a publicservant.. Therefore he is entitled to notice, under section 461 of theCivil Procedure Code, whether his conduct was malicious or not.Communications between officers of the Executive Government areabsolutely privileged—see Maasdorp1 and Chatterton v. Secretary ofState for India3.. Section 124 of the Evidence Ordinance enacts thatsuch communications are privileged from disclosure.
i •
P. M. Jayewardene, for plaintiff, respondent, not called upon.
<
Cur. adv. vult.
Juiie 5, 1917. Wood Benton C.J.—j-
The plaintiff, a Buddhist priest, sued the defendant, who wasformerly the AracKchi of Heenikkiriyawa, for damages alleged to havebeen sustained by him in consequence of a defamatory report madeby the defendant to the Government Agent of the North-CentralProvince. The defendant admitted that he had made the report inquestion, but pleaded, inter alia, that the action was not maintain-able, as no notice of action had been given in compliance with theprovisions of sections 461 of the Civil Procedure Code, and also thatthe report itself was a privileged document, in respect of which noaction for damages would lie. He also claimed&apos; damages in recon-vention from the plaintiff, on the ground of certain allegations whichthe latter had made to the Government&apos; Agent in regard to
1 4 Maas. ipi, 102.3 (1896) 2 Q. B. 189.