
( 225 )
Present : Bertram C-J. and Jayewardene A.J.
1924.
SENABATXA v. PEBEBA *t al.
14—D. C. Kurunegala, 8,448.
Kes judicata—Action between co-owners—Added defendant*—Adjudica-tion between defendant* inter se—Adverse claims.
Where a co-owner sues another to obtain a declaration of titleto the undivided share he claims, and the other co-owners arejoined to enable him to prove his title in their presence, the judg-ment obtained by him would be re* judicata between the plaintiff,and the defendants, but not between the defendants inter se.
Theprinciple that thedecisionisnotresjudicata between
co-defendants is subject to two exceptions:
(а) When a plaintiff cannot obtain the relief he claims without
an adjudication between the defendants, and such an adjudi-cation is made, the adjudication so made is res judicata notonly between theplaintiffand the defendants, but also
between the defendants.
(б)When adverse claimsare setupbythedefendants to an
action, the Court may adjudicate upon, the claims of suchdefendants amongthemselves,andsuchadjudication will
be res judicata between the adversary defendants as well asbetween the plaintiff and the defendants.
Provided that in either case the real rights and obligations ofthe defendants inter se have been defined in the judgment.
PPEAL from a judgment of the District Judge of Kurunegala.
The plaintiff sued the first and second defendants to bedeclared entitled to $ of 5/9 of the land depicted in the plan, whichhe said was a divided portion of the Qand called Xugagahamulla-henyaya. The first and second defendants called it Siyambala-gahawatta. The third, fourth, and fifth defendants were joinedas co-owners of the plaintiff. All parties claimed title from thesame source—the fourth defendant. The. third and fifth defendantsfiled answers suppprting the plaintiff&apos;s contention and claimingcertain shares. The main issue which was common to the plaintiffand the third and fifth defendants was as follows : —Is the landdescribed in the plan identical with the land called and known asXugagahamullahenyaya ? The learned District Judge held thatthe first and second defendants were attempting to take advantageof a mistake in the deed under which the plaintiffs claimed, andthat the land claimed by the plaintiffs as Xugagahamullahenyayawas identical with the land sold to the first and second defendantsby the fourth defendant under the name of Siyambalagahawatta.He dismissed the plaintiff’s claim, .with costs, but directed&apos; the third