
( 463 )
Present ; Jayewardene A.J.SILVA v. RAHIMAN.
1924.
465—P. C. Balapitiya-t 3,950-.
Apt&apos; al—Orderojdischarge—Sanction ofAttorney-General—Criminal
Procedure Code, *. 192—Cheating—Penal Code, ss. 400 and 403.
An order of discharge under section 191 of the. Criminal ProcedureCode does not amount to an acquittal, and an appeal lies to theSupreme Court from such an order without the sanction of theAttorney-General.
Where a person is charged with cheating and delivery of propertyhas been the result of the deception, the offence disclosed is one*under section 403 and not under section 400 of the Penal Code.
HE accused was charged with cheating under section 400 of
the Penal Code by inducing the complainant to pay Rs. 100on the promise of delivering some rubies. After the evidence ofthe complainant, .the Acting Police Magistrate directed summonsto issue on the accused. When the accused appeared on February25, 1924, before the permanent Magistrate, he was charged fromthe summons and made a long statement. On March 10, the Magis-trate without allowing the complainant to lead any further evidenceacquitted the accused. The complainant appealed against theorder.
H. V. Perera, for. appellant.
August 22, 1924. Jayewardene A.J.—
In this case the accused was charged with cheating, in that hehad induced the complainant to pay Rs. 100 on the promise ofdelivering some rubies. The rubies were not – delivered, andthe complainant charges the accused under section 400 of thePenal Code. The complainant gave evidence before Mr. Alwis.Proctor, who was acting as Police Magistrate and who directedsummons to issue on the accused. When the accused appearedon February 25, 1924, he was charged from the summons andmade a long statement before the permanent Magistrate. Thepermanent Magistrate without allowing the complainant to lead•any further evidence acquitted the accused on March 10, 1924,which was the date fixed for the resumption of the trial. I need notexamine the reasons given by the Magistrate, but 1 may say thatthey are not sufficiently strong to have led hiih to acquit the■accused at the stage at which the order of acquittal was made.The complainant appeals against this order. The learned Magis-trate thought this appeal was irregular because it has not been