
( 248 )
1808.
October 11,
SILVA et al. v. DASSANAYAKE.D. C., Kalvlara, 1,757.Landlord and- tenant-—Non-payment of rent on due date—Right of land-lord to re-enter—Right of tenant to restoration of possession—Trial
of case without oral evidence—Decision on pleadings.
Bonskr, C.J.—According to the Roman-Dutch Law it is notcontrary to public policy for A to contract with B that, if A doesnot pay rent to B duly for possession of his house, the lease shouldbe determined.
But for non-payment of rent the lessor has no right to re-enterwithout an order of Court. If the lessor re-enters, the lessee isentitled to be restored to possession and to recover damages forunlawful dispossession.
Withers, J.—If a tenant desires to keep his premises, he mustobserve his obligations. If he fails to pay rent as and when hebargained to do so, and has consented to let the landlord resumepossession, he cannot ask the Court to prevent the landlord fromholding possession.
When a landlord comes to court to exact the payment of rentwith interest and to demand the expulsion of the tenant as well, interms of a stipulation to that effect in the contract, I am not surethat he would have a decree of re-entry as a matter of course.
When the pleadings cover all the points in dispute, there is noharm in leaving the case for tne Court&apos;s decision on the pleadings.
HE defendant, being owner of a garden, leased it to the
plaintiff by an instrument dated August 27,1895, for a periodof eight years and six months for the sum of Rs. 1,520, on thefooting that no rent was to be charged for the first six months inconsideration of plaintiff improving the first plantation ; that therent for the first four years out of the remaining eight years wasto be at the rate of Rs. 180 for a year, and the&apos;other, four years atthe rate of Rs. 200 for a year. The plaintiff paid the first year’srent on the execution of the lease, and it was stipulated that thesecond year’s rent should be paid on the 26th November, 1896,and the rent for the succeeding six years before the 26th day ofNovember of each year.
The plaintiff failed t o pay the second year&apos;s rent due /on the26th November, 1896, and on the 20th December, 1896, thedefendant resumed possession of the garden-
On the 13th February the plaintiff commenced this actionclaiming to be reinstated in possession of the garden, and hebrought into Court the rent due on the 26th November, 1896,with legal interest up to the date of the action, and he claimedRs. 500 damages for wrongful dispossession.