
( 00 )
1900.July 11.
SIMPSON & CO. v. SOTZA.C. R., Colombo, 11,052.
Action by broker for commission—Negotiation of loan for borrower—Finding a
lender—Rejection by lender of tide deeds offered as security.
A having requested B to raise a loan on the mortgage of certainproperty belonging to A, B found a lender who, however, after ex-amining the title, refused to advance the money, alleging that the titlewas defective. B sued A for his commission.
Held that, if AV-title deeds were not in order, B should succeed in hisaction.
Per Bonser, C.J.—The rule is that if an agent does all that he isexpected to do, according to the terms of the contract, and finds aperson able and willing to lend the money, then the agent has earnednis commission; and it matters not what happens afterwards, whetherthe lender capriciously refuses to complete his bargain, or the bargainfalls through from any other cause, for in that case the agent has doneall that he was required to do.
But where the plaintiff found a person able, ready and willing tolend the money, but that person entered into no binding agreement tolend the money, the rule is that if the would-be lender was preventedfrom lending the money by the fact that the owner of the property, thedefendant, was unable to make out a good title to the property whichwas to bo the security for the loan, the plaintiff would be entitled tohis commission, for he has done all that he was expected or was boundto do, and the failure of the loan was due to the fault of the defendant.
HE plaintiff, as a duly licensed broker and commission agent,
alleged that the defendant on the 4th July, 1899, requestedthe plaintiff to negotiate for the defendants a loan of Rs. 10,000on the mortgage of property belonging to the defendant; that thedefendant agreed to pay to the plaintiff a commission of 2 percent, for the same; “ that in pursuance thereof the plaintiff“ obtained the said loan for the defendant, whereby the defendant“ became liable to pay the plaintiff the sum of Rs. 200, being money“ payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for work done by him“ as broker and agent for the defendant at his request, and for“ commission and reward due from the defendant to the plaintiff“ in respect thereof.”
The defendant admitted the agreement, but denied his liabilityto pay the amount claimed, as the plaintiff did not obtain the loanin question for cbe defendant.
The Commissioner found that the plaintiff did secure a lenderin Mr. F. C. Loos, who was willing to lend the defendant Rs.10,000on the mortgage of his property; but that as defendant’s title deedswere not in order, the lender did not see his way to accepting