
THE
NEW LAW REPORTS OF CEYLONVOLUME! XXVI.
Present : Bertram C.J. and Ennis J.1924.THE BRITISH PETROLEUM CO., LTD., ». THEATTORNEY-GENERAL..183—D. C. Colombo, 953.
Damage caused to steamship in harbour—Negligence of pilot—Action
against the Croton—Tort—Contract.
The ss. “ British Ensign ” entered the Colombo harbour in theordinary course and was allotted berth No. 21 by a pilot. When thesteamer attempted to leave the harbour on the following morning,she found herself aground on a large and dangerous rock. Throughgrounding on this rock or through the efforts which were made toget her off it, she sustained serious damages. The plaintiff com-pany sued the Government of Ceylon for damages.
Held, that the Government of Ceylon was not liable in damages.&apos;
An action does not lie against the Crown in this Colony in" respect of a tort.
In the case of our harbour such obligations as rest upon theCrown with reference to the safety of the harbour are obligationsarising out of the relation between the Crown as the harbourauthority and the persons using the harbour. A breach of theseobligations could only give rise to an action in tort, if such anaction lay against the Crown, and the payment of these dues doesnot create a contractual relationship between the Crown and the ,subject.
If an action in tort would lie against the Government, such anaction would be excluded in the present instance, in so far as it wasbased on the negligence of the pilot.
J. N. B 58477-201 (2/56)
1924.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ud., v.The
Attorney•General
( 2 )
HE facts are set out in the judgment.
Akbar, S.-O. (with him V. M. Fernando, C.C.), for defendant,appellant.
Elliott, K.C. (with him Hayley, H. H. Bartholomeutz, and L. Af. da
Silva), for plaintiffs, respondents.
«
February 27, 1924. Bertram C.J.—
This is an action against the A ttomey.-General of Ceylon, asrepresenting the Ceylon Government, in respect of damagessustained by the steamship “ British Ensign ” in Colombo harbour.This ship entered the habour in the ordinary course, and, inpursuance of an application received some days previously, was* allotted a berth in a particular region of the harbour. She calledat Colombo solely for the purpose of taking in fresh water and oilfor her bunkers. This purpose being accomplished, she attemptedto leave the harbour on the following morning, but found herselfaground on a large and dangerous rock, which was situatedpractically within the berth itself, and the existence of which wasunknown to the harbour authority. Through grounding on thisrock or through the efforts which were made to get her off it, shesustained serious damages which were discovered on her reachingEngland at the dose of her voyage, and it is in respect of thesedamages that the action is brought.
Various important questions of law arise in the case, and, inparticular, the old question whether in this Colony the Crown canbe sued in an action founded on an alleged tort. There is thealternative question, whether, assuming that the plaintiffs are boundto found their action on a contract, there is any contractual relation-ship between the Crown as the harbour authority in Colomboand the owners of ships making use of the harbour. But-before thesequestions of law are considered, it is necessary to determine the&apos; facts.
The harbour of Colombo is under the control of the Government,and the Government officer in charge is the Master Attendant (seeOrdinance No. 6 of 1865). In the direction of the harbour theGovernment is for some purposes assisted by an Advisory Boardknown as the Colombo Port Commission. Compulsory pilotage isenforced, and the only authorized pilots are Government officerswho receive a salary from the Government), but are also entitled incertain cases to receive fees (see Pilots Ordinance, No. 4 of 1899).The harbour comprises an area of some 640 acres, and within thisarea ships are berthed by the pilots under the direction of the MasterAttendant in a system of regular berths lying at intervals betweenbuoys stationed for the purpose. The assignment of these berthsto ships requiring them is one of the statutory functions of the
( 3 )
Master Attendant (see rule 8 of the rules for the port of Colombomade under the Masters Attendant&apos;s Ordinance), but in recenttimes this has, in fact, been delegated to the senior pilot onduty.
The ss. &apos;* British Ensign ” entered the harbour about 9 a.m. onSeptember IQ, 1919. Other ships arrived about the same tune,and Pilot Hamilton, as senior pilot, assigned .this steamer to berthNo. 21, and she was taken in charge by Pilot Sorensen. The ss.“ British Ensign ” is an oil tank steamer of 17,064 .tons gross register.She is 440 feet in length (330 feett at the keel), and her beam is 57. foot*Her draught on arrival was 24 feet 10 inches aft and 25 feet 6 inchesforward. The oil she intended to take in would affect her draught,and on departure, judging from previous voyages, her draught aftwould be 27 feet1 9 inches. There seems no question that PilotSorensen ascertained this fact from the Captain. Berth No. 21 laybetween two buoys, Nos. 33 and 43 respectively * situated 600feet apart. The berth lies partly within and partly without a30-foot contour line marked on a chart of the harbour which isexhibited for the use of the pilots. The season was what is describedas the .tail end of the south-west monsoon, and at; this season of theyear ships lying in that berth would have their stem moored tobuoy 23 and their stern moored to buoy 43. It was in the regionof buoy 48 that the part of the berth outside the 30-foot contour linewas situated. The soundings in the neighbourhood of this, buoywere such that it would be, on the face of it, highly unsafe to bertha steamer of this length and of the draught she would require ondeparture in this berth, if she were berthed evenly between the twobuoys. As it was put by the pilots in their evidence, at this endof the berth there is what is described as a “ shallow patch. " Theexistence of this ** shallow patch " is the most elementary fact inconection with this berth. The pilots all say they were familiarwith it. One of them, Hamilton, observes that the knowledge ofits existence is bread and butter to him. Pilot Sorensen assertsthat it was never customary to moor a large ship like the ss. “ BritishEnsign ” actually between the buoys, and says that, for the reasonsabove explained, he took particular care to mcior her in a positiona little to one side of the berth, in such a way that she lay whollywithin the 39-foot contour line and some 50 feet from the “ shallowpatch. ” It is in this way, so he asserts, and his evidence is confirmedby Pilot Hamilton, that it is customary to. berth steamers of thismagnitude in such a berth as No. 21. The ss. “ Paul Lecat,” avery large steamer, some 530 feet in length, which was berthed in thenext berth at the very same time, was berthed in this manner.What is more Pilot Olssen, who was engaged in berthing the ss.
Paul Lecat ” while Sorensen berthed the ss. “ British Ensign, "confirms the evidence of Sorensen, and definitely says that he sawthe ss. ** British Ensign ” berthed in the manner described.
1924.
Bertram
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., v.The
Attorney-
General
1924.
BBB3RAH
as.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., 9.The
Attorney-General
( * )The ship took m all .the oil and water she required, and the Captainarranged for her to leave the harbour before dawn the next morning.For this purpose Pilot Hamilton .came aboard, but when measureswere taken to start the ship it was found that she was aground.Pilot Hamilton who knew nothing about the rock in the neighbour-hood of the berth, and who assumed in the darkness that she waalying at the place where she ought to have been lying, concludedthat she was “ mud-sucked aft, *’ and tried to move her with theengines. This he found impossible. He then signalled for a tug.Dawn soon broke, and it then became evident that the steamer wasnot lying in the position at which Sorensen and Olssen swear shewas moored, but in an entirely different position. As Pilot Hamiltonsays: *4 When daylight broke I realized that the ship was muchtoo near the stem buoy and that she was on this patch. " PilotGreen who came on board later also realizeld this fact: “ When Iwent on board, the ss. * British Ensign * was on the &apos; shallowpatch, the stem was right over the stem buoy/&apos; So also PilotOlssen : “ Her position was quite different from the position inwhich I saw her the previous day."
It was assumed by everybody that the steamer was aground onthe mud, and measures to get her off were taken on this basis.Orders were given to fill the tanks forward and&apos; to shift .the oil fuelso as to bring the ship down by the head. A tug, as already stated,was requisitioned by Hamilton, and in agreement with the Captainhe attempted to slew the vessel round, in the hope of working heroff the mud. This manoeuvre proved ineffective. As the Captainsays in his evidence (see question 99) :It being sand and mud on
the chart and no rocks, we thought she would work herself out.Between 7 and 8 a.m. Pilot Hamilton was relieved by Pilot Greenwho employed two tugs: “ I decided to use both tugs. I sent thetugs abreast of1 the funnel on the starboard side with – instructionsto push her to port so as to shove her off the patch. I found afterthree minutes that it was hopeless.
The effect of these operations was to pivot the ship on her stem.While they were being carried out and the engines were workingfull speed ahead, the Captain heard thuds from the bridge. Oneof his officers reported that there were two or three throbs from aft.The engines were accordingly stopped. Pilot; Green now adopteda fresh expedient. He ran a line to the head buoy, got in all theslack of the stern moorings, and gave instructions to heave the buoyunder water. The object of (his operation was to pull her bead toport, so that at high water (which was at noon) she might be pulledoff the patch. This operation succeeded, and at 11.30 a.m., withthe rise of the tide, the ship floated.
Before sailing the Captain prudently took measures to have thebottom of the ship surveyed by a local diver. This survey appearsto have been of the most perfunctory description- It was reported
( « )that the ship had sustained no damage; she resumed her homeward 19M*voyage, but, on her being dry-docked at Southampton, it was Bertramdiscovered that she had sustained damage ofa very extensive0,J‘
character. The character of this damage wassuch that it was The British
suspected that die must have gone aground not on mud, but opon arock. Her owners accordingly took measuresto have a survey9The&apos;
made by a diver of a section of the harbour inthe neighbourhood
of berth No. 21. A* considerable rook was thereupon discovered,reaching in places to about 25 feet from the surface. The diver, in nisreport, describes it as " hard rook bottom with big rock projections,surrounded by 8 to 4 feet of soft mud. ” He says in his evidence:
" In some parts, when I stood up by the rook, it came up abovemy head, straight up. My height is 5. feet 7 inches." Itthus became apparent, what had already been suspected, thatwhen the pilot were pivoting the vessel this way and that with thetugs, in the hope of working her off supposed mud, she was reallyaground upon this rock, and that the thuds, and throbs abovereferred to were caused by her being pulled about on the surface ofthe rock.
The problem at once presents itself: How, if the evidence ofSorensen be true, could she ever have got into this position at all?
The singular thing is that in the evidence no attempt whatever is-made to explain this obvious point. Though counsel on both sidesand the learned District Judge himself were all aware that the officers &apos;told an entirely different story as to the place in which she was berthed,neither Sorensen, who swore that he had berthed her outside the" shallow patch, ” nor Olssen, who said he saw Sorensen berth herthere, nor Hamilton and Green who state that they found her m themorning in a place in which she never ought to have been berthed,were asked a single question either by counsel or by the Court witha view to explaining how she could possibly have got there. This isall the more singular when it is borne in mind that the pilots, or someof them, had attended conferences at the. Attorney-General&apos;s Office*and that according to their own evidence they had from time to timediscussed the story of the case in detail, and had read and studied .the evidence given by the officers in London. The* Solicitor-Generalin his argument could only suggest that the ship had drifted intothis dangerous position, because those on board had negligentlyinterferred with her moorings. He insisted that a steamer moored *and anchored as Sorensen described would be held absolutely rigid,and- could not possibly shift from her place. No expert evidencewas tendered as to the possibility of such a ship shifting from hermoorings under the weather conditions of the time. No reason isgiven to us why those on board should have interfered with themoorings. In the result it is quite inexplicable that if Soresenmoored her where he says he moored her, she could have been foundwhere she was found.
26/5
( 6 )
1924.
 X
Bertram
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., v.The
Attorney*
General
It is necessary, therefore, to consider the evidence given on theother side. This was given in London when those who gave it hadno inkling whatever of the case for the Crown. It t§ plain andstraightforward evidence, and those who gave it obviously had noconception that the* ship had been berthed in any special manner,or Under any other conditions than those which they had them-selves described. The officers of the ship assert that she wasberthed actually between the buoys with an anchor on the port bowand her stem slightly in the same direction. In this position herstern would lie just above the end of the rook.
If one has to choose between these two stories, it i$ obvious thatthe latter is the more probable, but there is one circumstance whichclinches the matter. Within half an hour after the steamer wasberthed, the Captain took soundings. These are recorded in a paperof notes which he had made at the&apos;time, and which he gave to the ship’sagents at Colombo who forwarded it to the owners with the Captain’sreport. It appears from these soundings that , the depth of the wateraft, at the time they were taken, was according to – the ^pptain28 feet, or according to the Chief Officer 28 feet 3 inches. This depthof water is entirely reconcilable with the position in which the shipwas berthed according* to the evidence of her officers; it is quiteirreconcilable with the story told by Sorensen.
The Solicitor-General treats these “ master’s notes ” with acertain reserve, pointing out that they are put forward as being anenclosure in the master&apos;s letter to his owners of September 11, 1919,whereas that letter, in referring to its enclosures" speaks not of“ master&apos;s notes, ” but of “ a list of suondings taken later round theship this a.m.” The Solicitor-General’s attitude of reserve iscertainly prudent, but the document seems to me, on the face of it,to be genuine.
This version of the berthing as told by the ship’s, officers is,however, not without difficulty. The position in which they, saythe steamer was berthed was not by any means the position in whichshe was found by Pilot Hamilton in the morning. Indeed, if oncompleting her bunkers she had settled down precisely at the spotwhere she is said to have been berthed, she would only just havecome in contact with the rock, and, indeed, if regard be had to ,theconformation of the hull at the stem, it is just possible that she wouldhave escaped the rock altogether. When she was found in themorning she must have been hard aground on the very centre ofthe rock. Pilot Hamilton marked on the diver’s chart the placein which he found her. It is very, difficult to define the positionin which she was when he first came aboard in the dark, because hestates that when he tried to slew her round she did not move forward,but pivoted slightly. It is very difficult to understand the Captain&apos;saccount of the position of this steamer in the . morning. He speaksof her being canted" 14 2£ points to starboard ” from her original
( 7 )
position by the operation of the tugs, but he appears to have assumed ltHthat she was tying in the morning in her original position on the line — -between the two buoys. This cannot possibly be* If she was O.J.berthed between the two buoys, her position had appreciably shifted xheBriuk|y the time Hamilton came aboard, and no explanation of this Wwtinshifting is given to us. On the contraiy such shifting is denied.wu**&apos;
44 168. Q.—Was there anything to cause your ship to range ormove at all?
44 A.—No, nothing at all.
•4 109. <J.—Did she He perfectly properly moored the whole timeshe was there?
44 .4.—Yes."
The shifting, however, is very slight compared with the shiftingwhich must have taken place – if she was berthed in the mannadescribed by Sorensen. If we have to choose between the twostories, it seems dear that the story told by the ship&apos;s officersis the more probable. This is confirmed by the striking circumstance,of the soundings * above mentioned. The learned District Judgehas found, a? a faot, that the steamer was not berthed as describedby Sorensen., but was berthed approximately between the two buoys,and this finding of fact, * under the circumstances, cannot possibly,be disturbed. We are driven to the conclusion, therefore, that theship got aground on .this unsuspected rock owing to its negligentberthing by Pilot Sorensen.
It is extremely difficult to understand bow Pilot Sorensen cameto be guilty of this negligence. According to bis own admission, hewas furnished by the Government with information which, to aearefu.1 and experienced man, ought to have made such1 negligenceimpossible. It is dear, too, that when called to account by theMaster Attendant by his letter of September 17, 1919, ha reptiedat once on September 21, 1919, that ha was fully aware of theexistence of the 11 shallow patch/&apos; and berthed the ship accordingly.
8ome suspicion appears to have been raised as to the genuinenessof his letter, but we now know that that suspicion was unjustified.Nevertheless, it was a Tetter written after the* event, when herealized that it was necessary for him to defend himself.&apos; Nonegligence is to be imputed to Pilot Hamilton for assigning berthNo. 21 to the ss. 44 British Ensign/* as it is quite dear that the shipcould have been placed within that berth in a position of perfectsafety.
There are certain other contentions or suggestions of fact whichwe must now consider. The suggestion is made by. the Crown thatsome, at any rate, of. the damage sustained by the ship was notsustained at. Colombo, but at .some other place. It is pointed outthat according to the evidence of the diyer who examined the shipbefore her departure no damage was then visible. The suggestion .
( 8 )
1024.
Bertram
C.J.
TheBrMhPetroleumGo., Ltd., v.The
Attomey-
Qtnerel
thus, at first sight, would appear to be that she must have groundedsomewhere in the oourse of her voyage to England, but no place isindicated ias a possible place for such a grounding. The suggestion,,however, turns out to be that she must have grounded at BpeZzia,not on her voyage home, but on her voyage to Colombo, There1 isno evidence whatever to confirm this suggestion, and it does notseem in the least likely that if the ship had grounded in Spezziaharbour, the fact would have been&apos; suppressed in the log book andno protest made at the time: The suggestion is, indeed, whollyunplausible. There is one circumstance, and one circumstancealone which creates a difficulty. Certain damage appears, to havebeen inflicted on the bottom of the steamer at a point some 150 feetaway from the stern, and this damage cannot possibly Have beensustained in Colombo harbour. It remains unexplained. Noseparate particulars are given of the cost of repairing this damage.As the damage is not very considerable, and as the learned Judgefinds that the plaintiffs have proved more damages.than they haveclaimed, the circumstance does not seem to require any special order.It is clear, at any rate, that the steamer did ground upon a rock inColombo harbour, and that the operations undertaken. for. thepurpose of getting her off it were well calculated to cause the damagewhich was subsequently discovered.
/ *
There is a final – question of fact of some importance. It seemsfairly clear (though the point is contested) that if measures hadsimply been taken to shift the( weight of the cargo and bring thesteamer down by the head, and if she had been left to await the riseof the tide, she would probably have floated off without any damage.It is certain that if Pilot Hamilton had known that a dangerousrock was’ lying immediately under the place where he found heraground, he would have taken very different measures, at any rate,from the ■ moment when dawn broke and he realized her position.It is equally certain that Pilot Green would not have attemptedto pivot -the steamer by means of tugs unless he had imagined thather stern was resting on mud. It appears to have been suggestedon behalf of the Crown that the measures undertaken to get thesteamer off were undertaken by the Captain; -that he wasresponsible for them; that they were wrongful measures; andthat he was -thus guilty of contributory negligence. I am entirelyunable to follow this argument.- As to whether these measureswere wrongful, or not, the experts are in conflict. According .tothose called by the plaintiffs, it was urgently necessary to get the-steamer off at once at all costs; she was an oil tanker, the wethermight change, and developments might arise which would not onlybe fatal to the steamer, but dangerous to the port of Colombo itself.The measures adopted, they .assert, were most reasonably adoptedin the emergency. The experts called by the Crown, however,maintain that there was no emergency; the weather was fine;
( » )the season was the tail end of the monsoon; no damage whateverwould have been entertained by waiting a few hours for the riseof the tide ; and here, I must confess, that it appears to me that theexperts called for the Crown are right. Anyone acquainted withthe normal September weather of Colombo must feel that the fearsexpressed by the experts called by the plaintiffs are illusory. Theexperts for the Crovfln, however, go further and say that evensupposing .the-stem of the vessel were resting on mud,* the pivotingoperations were most reprehensible. While one must always speakmodestly in the presence of expert opinion, it appears to me thatthe contentions on the other side are more plausible. I am cointentto adopt the opinion of the Captain himself (see question 211)44 there being sand and mud he was justified in trying to work herout. of her bed. If the pilot did not know that there was a rockthere, if it is sand and mud on that plan, he was justified in movingthe ship a point or twd each way. ”
With regard to the responsibility for the methods adopted, itseems clear to me that the responsibility was the pilot’s. He cameon board to get the vessel out ; he assumed control from thatmoment ; he is treated as being in control throughout the evidence.As was natural, he was spoken of as acting in consultation with theCaptain« It appears then that mistaken measures were adopted,and that it Was these mistaken measures that substantially causedthe damage. Were then the pilots guilty of negligence. in takingthese mistaken measures ?• It appears .to me that in the state oftheir knowledge that they were not. They had no knowledge ofthe existence of the rdek which made these measures inexpedient.If they had known of its existence, they would not have taken them.They had* no knowledge of the existence of this rock, because no-information had been given to them on the subject by the harbourauthority.
There is yet? one more question of fact to be dealt- with. Imme^diately after the steamer was berthed, the Captain, on his ownadmission, took soundings, and one of these taken aft showed adepth of only 28 feet. If the Captain had reflected on this figure,he must have seen that he was in a dangerous position. He wasfully acquainted with the tide conditions in Colombo harbour(see question, 847 seqq.). When his bunkering was completed, hisdraught would be 27 feet 9 inches. From a calculation which hasbeen furnished to us, it would appear that at the spot where thissounding* was taken the height of water at low tide would be about27 feet 4 inches. He would thus be certain to be aground at lowwater. It is quite true that he would be afloat again at 4.80 a.m.when he intended to sail, at which time the height of th6 waterwould be about 29 feet 3 inches. It is suggested, therefore, that -he ought to have taken measures to shift? his position, and that k byfailing to take these measures he was guilty of contributory
m
Bhbtram
CU.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., v.&apos; TheAttorney-General
( 10 )
1984.
Bbrtrax
O.J.
The British
PetroleumCo., Lfd., v*The
Attorney.
General
negligence. I think too much has been made of this point. Evenif the Captain did run this risk, itj was not his doing so that was thecause of the substantial damage, but, as I have shown above, thereal cause of thi6 damage was the ignorance of the pilots o! theexistence of the rock. In any case, there was no issue framedalleging contributory negligence on the part of the Captain.
On the question of fact, therefore, I have come .to the conclusionthat the primary cause of the damage sustained by the ship was itsnegligent berthing by Pilot Sorensen, but that its secondary causewas that Pilots Hamilton and Green had not been supplied by theharbour authority with any information of the existence of the •rook; and that in consequence of their ignorance they adoptedmistaken measures for getting the ship off, and that but &apos;for thesemistaken measures the substantial damage would not have beensustained.
&apos; These being the facts it now becomes necessary to consider thelegal issues. The plantiffs maintain that the Crown is responsiblefor the damage which has been suffered by their ship. It has beenalready deoided by this Court in a series of decisions culminatingin The Colombo Eleotric Tramway Co. v. The Attorney-General1 thatan action will not lie against the Crown in this Colony in respect ofwhat in English law is known as a tort. The plaintiffs formallycontest the correctness of those decisions, with a view to testingthem, if necessary, before another tribunal, but we consider ourselvesbound by those decisions, and it would be useless for us to discussthem. In ordey to make&apos; the Crown responsible, therefore, it isnecessary for the plaintiffs to show a contractual relationshipbetween themselves and the Crown, and &apos; a breach of somestipulation—express or implied—incidental to that relationship.This they essay to do.
The. responsibility of harbour authorities, or other authorities ofa similar nature, in respect of damage to ships incurred within theiisphere of action, has been considered in a series of English cases.The leading cases of .this-series are Pamaby v. Tfio Lancaster Canal■ Co., * where damage was caused to a boat in a canal ; The MerseyDocks and Harbour Board Trustees v. Gibbs, * where damage wascaused to a ship by a bank of mud in the Mersey ; The Burlington, *wliere damage was caused to a ship in a channel forming part of theharbour of Wisbech through the negligent, allotment of a-berth bythe Harbour Master ; The Queen v. William 5 where the ExecutiveGovernment of New Zealand was held responsible for damage causedby a snag to a ship lying at a.wharf belonging to the Government.To these may be added the kindred case of Lax v. The Corporationof Darlington,* which was a case in which damage was caused to a
(1913) 16 N. LJt. 161.4 72 L. T. (N. S.) 890.
(1838) 11 Ad. d> B. 223.* US84) A. C. (P. C.) 418.
a (1864) L. B. 1H af L. 93.• (1879) L. R. S Ex. Dio. 28.
( 11 )
cow by the existence of a dangerous railing in a public market. In 1924.all these cases (though there is a certain laxity in the use of someexpressions in The Mersey Docks and Harbour Board &apos; Trusteesv. Gibbs (supra) and The Burlington (supra)), the liability of the The Britishauthority is founded on tort, that is to say, on breach of thecommon law duty arising from the relationship of the parties.’ The
The plaintiffs, however, contend that this was an accident, andthat the liability of all these eases might have been founded oncontract if it had been necessary so to found it. They rely uponanother series of cases which they seek to apply by analogy to thepresent situation. The most important of these is Francis v.
Cockrellin which it was held that a person letting a seat in arace-stand impliedly contracted that the building was reasonablyfit for the purpose, and was liable in. damages for a breach of thiscontract, and where Martin B., on page 509, observed:I do not
at all pretend to say whether the relation of the parties raised acontract or a duty. It seems to me exactly the same thing.” Thesame doctrine was applied in a carefully reasoned judgment byMcCardie J. in Maclenan v. Segar2 This was a case relating to ahotel, and it was held that, by reason of the contractual relation-ship existing between an innkeeper and- a guest in the inn, there isnn implied warranty by the innkeeper that the inn premises areas safe as reasonable care and skill can make them. The learnedJudge carefully distinguished * between the liability in contract andthe liability in tort in such a case, and held that the former wasmore extensive than the latter.
In conjunction with these two cases they cited another line ofauthorities which deals with the subject of implied warranty, and,in particular, the well-known case of The Moorcock 3 where it washeld that the defendants, who were private wharfingers and enteredinto a contract with the plaintiff for the discharge of his vessel attheir jetty, impliedly warranted that they had taken reasonablecare that the bottom of the river (not within their own control)adjoining the jetty was in such a condition as not to cause injuryto the vessel. They also cited The Bearn A where . a railwaycompany, the owners of a. wharf at Shoreham, were held liable on asimilar implied warranty ; The Calliope A where the same principlewas discussed ; and in particular Scrutton v. The Attomey-Generoi forTrinidad A where the liability of the Government of Trinidad wasconsidered in respect of an alleged implied warranty of . safe accessto a floating dock which they carried on in a bay on the coast- ofthat Colony.
In this latter series of cases (beginning with The Moorcock(supra) the contractual relationship of the parties was clearly
1 (1870) L. R. 5 Q. B. SOI.
* (1917) 2 K. B. 825.*(1889) 14 Pro. D.64.
(1906) Pro. 48.
(1891) A. Q* 11.
(1920) 90 L. J. K. B.30.
1924.
Bertram
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumCo.t Ltd., v.The
Attorney’
General
( 12 )
established, and.the implied warranty was a warranty incidental to*that relationship, but it was contended that a contractual relation-ship could be inferred in the present case also ; that all that it wasnecessary to do was to treat a public harbour as being on the samefooting as a race-stand or a hotel. This implied only a single step,and the desirability of the taking of that step had been expresslyconsidered and recommended by McCardie J. in Liebig&apos;s Extract ofMeat Co., Ltd., v. Mersey Docks and Harbour Board1: ** It isin my view nrell worthy of argument, whether the principle ofFrancis v. Cockrell (supra) should not be applied in its entiretyto the case of the occupiers of &apos; docks and quays who invitethird persons to use for reward the facilities provided for ships andgoods..
On this basis the plaintiffs would put their case as follows : Thatthe Colombo harbour in substance constitutes a public servicecarried oh by the Government as a piece of state socialism. It isexactly on the same footing as the ‘ Government Bailway. In .thisharbour the Government provides facilities for, the berthing ofvessels and the landing and loading of cargo in return for chargessanctioned by law. As a result of the business thus carried on, theharbour, like the railway, is a great revenue-producing enterprise.A ship which enters the harbour, and, either expressly (as in thepresent instance) or impliedly aa by signalling for a- pilot, appliesfor a berth, and has one allotted to it, thereby impliedly enters into*a contract with the Crown under which it makes itself liable to paythe statutory dues and under which the Crown, in return for thosedues, undertakes to. put at its disposal the ordinary facilities of theharbour. Annexed to this contract by implication of law, on theauthority of The Moorcock (supra) and other cases, is a warrantyi;hat any berth hr which that steamer shall be moored by the harbourauthority is as safe for that ship as reasonable care and skill can.make it.
In my opinion this argument is a fallacy. In order that we maysee. what is the real situation, it is necessary to consider what is thenature of the Colombo harbour. It is described in a recentGovernment publication: “ A Handbook of Ceylon ” by Mr. L. J. B.Turner, p. 3., as " a capacious artificial harbour constructed outof an insecure anchoring place by the building of extensivebreakwaters. ” These breakwaters were constructed at the publicexpense, and, as appears from the history as recited by the learnedDistrict Judge, with the help of special dues levied on ships usingthe harbour. What is the position of such a harbour under our.common law ? It is laid down in Voett 1, 8, 8, that harbours ate•public property, and that the public are* entitled to the use of themin the same manner as to the use of public ways, shores, and river
&apos;(1918) 2 K. B. wj, p. 386.
( 18 ).
banks, and that everybody has a right o£ navigation and fisherywithin their limits :—■
“ adscribuntuT autem publicis hisce flumina perermia et portus,et quia horum communis est usus sicut viarum publicarumet littorum et riparum huic cuilibet in Hits navigate licetet piscare. ”
No distinction is drawn either in Voet or in .the passages from thecompilations of Justinian which he cites between a natural harbourand ah artificial harbour constructed at .the public expense. Nor,can I imagine that the*** Roman jurists on whom&apos; Voet bases thisprinciple made any distinction between a natural harbour such asthat of Syracuse and an artificial harbour such as that of Alexandria.“ Portus ” is defined in Fabciolati&apos;s lexicon as “ locus in secessu litonsvel natura vel manu conclusus,*" and a similar definition appears tohave been given by Lord Esher in R. v. Hannan.l Every ship,therefore, is entitled to enter Colombo harbour to navigate and, byimplication, to anchor within its limits. The control of the traffic,the anchoring, and the mooring of vessels in the Colombo harbouris placed in the hands of a Government officer, the Master Attendant,by the Masters Attendant&apos;s Ordinance, No. 6 of 1865 ; but the rightof every ship to an anchorage is expressly recognized by section 9of that Ordinance. By another Ordinance, No. 17 of 1869, ..certainport dues , were declared to be leviable upon all ships driving atthe harbour. The Government, as .the harbour authority, providescertain facilities such as buoys&apos; for mooring, tugs to assist themovements of vessels, quays and jetties for landing and loading,and* certain special facilities for oil bunkering. Some of these areprovided free, others are provided free .to a certain extent, forexample, pilotage and the use of tugs for certain vessels. Accordingto the Solicitor-General the case is analogous to that of a systemof public thoroughfares to which the public have access, but onwhich a public officer has authority to direct the traffic, and, ifnecessary, the parking of vehicles, and in connection with the useof which a tax is imposed upon these vehicles.
It is certainly very difficult to see how a ship which is entitled toenter and anchor in the harbour, and is bound to pay dues leviedupon its entrance, can be said by virtue of that entry and- thatpayment to enter into an implied contract with the .harbourauthority for the use of* the public facilities provided in the harbour.It does not enter the harbour on the invitation of * the harbourauthority, but in the exercise of a public right. As was said byLush J. in Lax v. The Corporation of Darlington (supra) : “ The
subject using a portis not a mere licensee. He is
exercising a right as One of the public for whose benefit theport …. was erected. ** Can it be said, then, that op
* U886) 8 T?L. R. 284&apos;
1924.
Bbbsram
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumGo., Ltd., v.The
Attorney•General
1984.
Bertram
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., v*The
Attorney-
General
( )so entering and making himself ■ liable to the statutory dues, hecontracts individually with the harbour authority by this paymentfor the use of the special facilities • which the harbour authorityaffords him ?
The nature of these facilities and the nature of that paymentwill be beBt understood if we consider the history of the subjectunder English law, the principles of which are not, I think, in thisrespect different from our own. It is onj^jn the light of thathistory that we can understand the English Authorities cited in thecase. A consideration of that history will also enable us toappreciate what is the nature of that “ common law duty ” whichis referred to in those authorities as being imposed upon harbour,canal, and market authorities.
In old English law the duties imposed upon shipping in ports andharbours were generally, referred to as tolls. Such tolls might belevied either in respect of goods landed or in respect of anchorage.The right to levy a toll was a “ franchise, ” and could only be createdby a royal grant or charter, but the imposition of such a toll wasconsidered as an interference with navigation, because under ourlaw, as under the Boman law, the subject was free to navigate thesea in all parts and to anchor upon its coasts. This&apos;right of freenavigation was specially guaranteed by Magna Charts. It wasnot competent for the King, therefore, to grant such a franchiseunless the grantee in return rendered some consideration to thepublic. See per Hale C.J. in Warren v. Prideaux1: “If anvman will prescribe for a toll upon the sea, he must allege a goodconsideration, because by Magna Charts and other statuteseveryone has a liberty to go and come upon the sea withoutimpediment. ** Not only* could the King grant such a franchise,but he could himself impose a toll. See per Best&apos;C.J. in Lord Fal-mouth v.. George *:“ There is no doubt that the King may at this
time establish a reasonable toll for the enforcement of any dutythat the public convenience of safety requires should be performed.The creation of a. toll is only a mode of paying for a public service.
As the origin of many of these tolls was lost&apos;, it was necessary forany toll owner, who required to set up the presumption of a grant,to show that some public service was in fact rendered as. a considera-tion for the toll. See the case of Lord Falmouth v. George (mpra).
The situation is thus explained by Lord Wenleydale in Gann v.Free Fishers of Whitsdale z : “ The right to the soil of the/ fundusmarts within three miles below low water mark and to the fisheryin it, though granted before Magna Charta., is undoubtedly subjectto the rights of all subjects to pass in their vessels in the ordinaryand usual course of navigation and t-o take the ground there or toanchor there at their pleasure, free from toll, unless the toll is imposed
1 &apos;I Mod. 104.* (MM) 5 Bing: on p. 292.
3 (1264) 11 H. L. <7. 21$.
( 15 )
In respect of some other advantage conferred upon them or at leaston the public. Subjects may have that advantage where theyanchor in a port in respect of the owner of the port being obligedto maintain it and keep it sufficiently repaired and ready for thereception of ships/’
The facilities provided may be of many descriptions, such asbuoys, wharves, piers, and .capstans, but where a port is artificiallyprovided the situation is specially clear. Lord Hale, De PortibusMarist Chap. 6, describes a port as follows, (see Foreman v. FreeFishers and Dredgers of Whitstable 1: “A port is quid aggregatumtconsisting of somewhat that is natural, viz., an access of the seawhereby ships may conveniently come, safe situation against windswhere they may safely lie, and a good shore where they may wellunlade ; something that is artificial as quays and wharves, and•cranes and warehouses, and houses of common receipt ; andsomething that is civil, viz., ius applicandi, ius mercati, and diversother additaments given, to it by civil authority. ”
The provision of a port was considered as, on the face of it, agood consideration for a toll. See per Lord Mansfield in Mayor.of Yarmouth v. Eaton a: “ The making of a port is in itself a con-sideration. It is a self-evident .convenience to a merchants Itspeaks for itself."
It will be observed that these authorities speak of the necessityof a consideration. But what is the nature of this consideration ?Is it a consideration arising as the basis of a contract between thegrantee of the franchise supplying the facility and the person payingthe toll ? Clearly not ; it is a general consideration as between thegrantee and the public at large. A ship entering the port is boundto&apos; pay the dues, even though it does not make use of the facility.The fact that it is there for the use of he public when they requireit is of itself sufficient consideration : “ We think that the keepingof the capstan and rope ready for the use of fishermen who resortto this cove is a sufficient consideration for a toll to be paid by them,whether they actually use it or-not/* Lord Falmouth v. George(supra); see also Jenkins v. Harvey,3 and this is the* meaning ofLord Mansfield when he says in the case above cited, " the makingof a port is itself a consideration."
A toll or harbour due is thus in the nature of an imposition placedupon the subject in return for a benefit conferred upqn the public.It is not an individual contractual consideration. Of course,In modern, times, with respect to modern ports and harbours,franchise owners are replaced by public authorities and royalgrants by statutory enactments, but the dues paid by the publicare on precisely the same footing, and the nature of those dues
1 (1$69) 4 H. L. C. 286.1 {1763) 3 Burrs. on p. 426. .
&apos; 9 2 <?. M. R. 393.
1924.
Brbthax
CJr.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Lid., v.The
Attorney-
General
1924.
BSRTRAlt
C.J.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., t>.The
Attorney-General
{ 16 )
is explained with precision by Lord Tenterdon in Kingston-uponHull Dock Co. v. Browne 1:“ These rates are a tax upon the subject,
and it is a sound general rule that a tax shall not be. considered tobe imposed (or at least not for the benefit of the subject) withouta plain declaration of the intent of. the Legislature to impose it. ’&apos;When once it is realized that these dues are a &apos;tax&apos; on the subject,the whole situation becomes clear, and, indeed, if the enacting wordsin our own Ordinance – are considered, it is plain to demonstrationthat these dues are a tax. See section 17 of the Customs Ordi-nance, No. 17 of 1869: ” Port dues shall be leviable and payablefor entry inwards and for clearance outwards on all ships arriving*at or departing from.any port of this Island^”
If, then, these dues are a tax,, what is the nature of the facilities-which are afforded by the port authority ? These as alreadyexplained are the equivalent which it must. render for the publicprivilege which it secures, and as the privileges which it secures-are public and general,;so the facilities are public and general also.*It is a common law obligation of the owner of the franchise tomaintain these franchises, and, if necessary, to keep them in goodorder. As Lord- Mansfield said in Mayor of Yarmouth v. Eaton(supra): “ A port may in fact not require repair, but if it does requirerepair, the owner of the franchise must.repair it.” See per Parke B.in Jenkins v.-Harvey (supra): “ Here the right of corporations totolls is not merely a consideration for the use of the port, but alsoof an obligation to repair and cleanse it.” Of course, the owner ofa franchise may find in his franchise what 1 have above describedas a revenue-producing enterprise. The more and better facilitieshe provides, the more vessels may resort to his port., but fundamentaland necessary facilities he is under a common law duty bound toprovide and maintain and when such facilities are provided in pursu-ance of a modern statute, they are provided in recognition of thisgeneral obligation.
It is, I think, here that we must seek the origin of .that,” common,law duty ” which is referred to in Pamaby v. The Lancaster CanalCo. (supra) and the succeeding cases. In the judgment of LordDenman C.J., in that case the Canal Co. are spoken of as inviting thewhole public to navigate in their canal, and the obligation is treatedas being in the same nature as that which applies to a trader wholeaves an open trap – door in his shop and causes a customer to falldown and suffer injury. In the case of The Mersey Docks andHarbour Board Trustees v. Oibbs (supra), however, the duty, ofthe trustees was treated as being incidental to the receipt of tolls.The difficulty of x applying the principles relating to the rightsof invitees to a case where, the public cannot be said to be invited,but where they have an actual right of access, was considered, butbrushed aside by the Judges of the Court of Appeal in Liebig&apos;s
3 B. <6 A. 42.
( 17 )
Extract of Meat Co., Ltd., v. Mersey Docks and Harbour Board (supra).I think {hat in the case of our own harbour such obligations as restupon the Crown with reference to the safety of the harbour areobligations arising out of the relation between the Crown as theharbour authority and the persons using the harbour, and, inparticular, the fact that the Crown exacts&apos; dues as an .equivalentfor services rendered to tile public. A breach of these obligationscould only give rise to an action in tort if such an action lay againstthe Crown, and the payment of these dues does.not create a con-tractual relationship between the Crown and the subject.
Some question may arise with‘ regard to some of the (servicesrendered by the Crown in connection with the port, and, in parti-cular,- with regard to pilotage and use of buoys. It might b,econvenient, therefore, that I should explain the history of thesefacilities. The hssrbour dues as originally imposed made noreference to any special facilities (see the schedule of dues annexedto Ordinance No. 20 of 1898). By section 18 of Ordinance No. 14of 1907 a buoy rent was imposed in cases where a ship remained inthe harbour longer than 288 hours. A ship calling for bunkers midwater only, notwithstanding this enactment, got the use of buoysfree. By Ordinance No. 29 of 1909 a consolidated special rate wasprovided for certain ships, and this was held to cover both pilotageand the use of tugs. The payment of buoy rent was still confinedto ships staying longer than 288 hours. Pilotage charges areimposed under Ordinance No. 4 of 1899, or more specifically byrules made under that Ordinance. There is no provision for a ship,calling like the ss. “ British.Ensign, ” simply for oil bunkering, butin practice oil bunkering is treated on the same footing as coalbunkering. This ship, therefore, enjoyed free pilotage, free useof tugs for berthing and unberthing, and free use of buoys.- I donot think that the fact that if she had stayed longer, she would havehad to pay a special charge for these services effects the question&apos;whether her owners by payment of the consolidated rate enteredinto a contractual relation with the Government. Ships whichoutstay 268 hours may possibly in respect of the payment of thesespecial charges enter into contractual relations with the Government.It is not necessary to decide that question in the present case. Thefact that these facilities are given gratis under the consolidatedrate does not, in my opinion,. convert what would otherwise havebeen a non-contractual relationship into a contractual relation-ship.
The situation may perhaps be made clear by an analogy. Supposethat a Municipality) in respect of the general services which it renderslevies a rate upon all premises within Its limits varying with theirannual value. Clearly no one would suggest that there is a con-tract in respect of the rates between the Municipality and eachindividual ratepayer. Next, suppose that the Municipality is
1984.
Bnauv
c-r.
The BritishPetroleumCo., Ltd., vThe
Attorney-
General
1924.
Bbrtbau
C.J.
The BritishPetroleum<jO., Ltd., v.The
Attorney-
General
( 18 >
also the electric light authority and supplies electric light to allresidents requiring it under individual contracts. Next, suppose &apos;that the Municipality introduced a change in its rating system anddeclares that all premises of a certain class, whatever their rental,should pay a special uniform rate, and that electric light should besupplied free to those premises up to a certain number of lights, Outthat if more than this number of lights were required they should besupplied on special terms. The supply of these services free on theseconditions would not convert the general relationship between theMunicipality and the ratepayers into a contractual relationship.Similarly, the free supply of pilotage and tugs and the use of buoysto ships calling for bunkers does not create a contractual relationship.
It may&apos;be convenient at this place to notice another point. Theledrned District Judge sees no difference between the Colomboharbour, the Colombo Graving Dock, and the floating, dock in thebay at Trinidad. It seems to me that there is all the difference inthe world. In the case of the harbour, there is a free right of entryand a rate levied in respect of facilities rendered. In the case ofthe graving dock and the floating dock, special services are renderedin pursuance of a specific contract. In the case of the graving dock,the- form of the contract is prescribed by statutory regulations.
There is another class of cases in which a contractual relationshipmay be deemed1 to arise, that is to 3ay, cases in. which a person maybe deemed to have entered into a warranty through the publicationof an advertisement. Sluch a case was held to arise m Bede Steam-ship Co. v. River Wear Commissioner1 on the issue of anadvertisement by the Commissioners as to the depth of water onthe sill of their dock. A. similar warranty was argued to&apos; arise in the- recent case of the Orita, reported in the Times of December 19, 1923,but not at present in any regular report. No doubt if the CeylonGovernment issued an advertisement and advertised certain facilitiesm connection with the harbour, and a shipowner, acting-upon thatadvertisement, took advantage of the facilities, it is possible thata contract might arise on. such a basis. But no such advertisementwas issued in the present case: I cannot regard the annualAdministration Reports, in which all the departments of Governmentgive an account of their stewardship for the information of theGovernment and the public, as being in the nature of an advertisement,holding out offers to traders. Nor can I see anything in theseAdministration Reports of the nature of a warranty. A pamphletcertainly was issued by the Port Commission with the authority ofGovernment lauding the advantages of the port of Colombo, but thiswas not issued until after the arising of the present cause of action.Such a pamphlet cannot, therefore, form the baas of a warranty inthis case even if it proved, on examination, capable of doing so. I. should add that I do not think that the fact that the agents of this
1 (1907) 1 K. B. 310.
( 1« )
steamship some time before her arrival applied for a berth for her ina particular part of the harbour on a certain day (quite apart fromthe fact that she did not arrive on that day) in any way affects thecontractual position of the Government. The Government wouldcertainly be in an awkward position if whenever, as a matter ofcourtesy, it accorded any special facility with regard to a publicservice it should be held to have entered into a &apos;contract in relationto that service.
In this view of the law it becomes unnecessary to consider thenumerous cases cited by the Solicitor-General, and Mr. Elliott withreference to the words “ founded on contract ” and " founded ontort ” in the County Courts Act, or the Solicitor-General&apos;s contentionthat even if it were established that there was a contract betweenthe plaintiffs and the Government, no action would lie against1 theCrown for a breaph of a common law obligation arising out ox &apos;thecontract, such a breach being according to his argument a tort. Itis not necessary for us to consider whether the principles whichdetermine the liability for costs under the County Courts Act Wouldbe applicable to cases in which the subject is seeking redress againstthe Crown.
In case, however, it should be ultimately held that the case ofThe Colombo Electric Tramway Go. v. The Attorney-General (supra)and the other cases to the same effect have .been wrongly decided,and that in Ceylon an action for . a civil wrong does lie against theCrown, it might be well to examine the question whether upon thatsupposition the Crown has in fact been guilty, in this case,.of thebreach of a duty it owes to the subject.
It might be convenient at the same time that we should considerwhat would be the- obligations of the Crown in .the matter if it wereheld, as Mr. Elliott contends, that a contractual relation was in factestablished between the Crown and the plaintiffs, and whether onthat supposition there has been any breach of any such, obli-gation for which the Government? is responsible.
I will consider the liability in tort first. From this point of view,assuming that an action lies against the Crown, the case is on verysimilar lines to that, of The Burlington (supra). &apos;It was .there held,in effect, that it was the duty of a harbour authority undertakingto berth ships in the harbour to do so with due care. The HarbourMaster assigned to the ss. “ Burlington " a berth which was in factdangerous, and the harbour authority was held liable for hisnegligence. In this case berth No. 21 was assigned to the ss. “ BritishEnsign * by Pilot Hamilton, acting under the presumed authorityof the Master Attendant. There .was nothing&apos; negligent about theassignment of berth No. 21 to the steamer. She could have beenmoored in that berth with perfect safety. She was, however, notin fact so moored, and we have been forced to the conclusion thatPilot Sorensen in the manner in which he moored her was guilty of
1924.
Bertram
OUT.
Th&BrtiishPetroleumGo., Ltd., v.. TheAttorneyGeneral