
( 235 )
The Government Agent, Southern Province, v. Silva te al.
D. C., Gaik, 3,127.
Reference under the Land Acquisition Ordinance—How opinions of
assessors are to be recorded—Market value—Tests for ascertaining it.
In a trial on a reference under the Land Acquisition Ordinance forthe purpose of ascertaining the market value of the land acquired,each assessor must give his opinion orally, and such opinion mustbe recorded by the judge, so that the Appeal Court may have beforeit the independent opinion of each assessor.
Bonseb, C. J.—■The market value of a house does not depend onthe money expended on it, nor on the difficulties which had to beovercome in building it.
Withers, J.—The market value of any given land depends on itsextent, situation, relative position, and its adaptability for anyparticular use; also upon the rent and rate of interest obtainingin the district.
Among the tests of the market value of a piece of land are theprice which anyone would give for it at a public auotion and theprice given at recent sales for lands similarly situated.
r I &apos;&apos;HIS was a case under the Land Acquisition Ordinance. TheJ- amount of compensation for .the land acquired by Govern-ment and awarded by the Government Agent having been refusedby the defendants, the Government Agent referred the matter tothe District Court. The defendants duly appeared and nominatedtheir assessor, as the plaintiff did his. On the 8th July, 1895, the
1808.
August 19.
( 236 )
1898. case came on for trial. The line of inquiry adopted to determineAugust19. the compensation payable to plaintiff proceeded on the value of(1) the bare soil of the land, (2) each of the buildings on it,allowing so much for material and so much for labour, and (3)each of the trees that stood on the soil, and also (4) on the ‘expenses of the owner’s removal to another residence. There wasalso some evidence as to recent sales in the vicinity.
The Government Agent for the Southern Province (Mr. levers)deposed as follows :—
In July, 1894, I was Acting Government Agent, Southern Province,and acquired this&apos;piece of land for the Matara railway. It is G 440 inpreliminary plan 4,054, which I produce. The extent acquired is 18perches. The building on it consisted of four buildings on fou sides of aquadrangle. We assessed them separately. I ordered the PattuMudaliyar to make an appraisement, and he submitted it, and I wentto the-land twice. The Mudaliyar’s valuation I approved of, and I addedsomething for forcible acquisition: that is, for southern buildingRs. 462- 45, to which I added Rs. 37’ 52, making Rs. 500 ; for northernbuilding Rs. 428’ 95, to which I added Rs. 51- 05, making Rs. 480 ; forwestern building Rs. 215*52, to which I added Rs. 34*48, makingRs. 250; for the eastern building Rs. 253, to which I added Rs. 27,making Rs. 280. I valued the bare soil atRs. 600 an acre, and acceptedthe Mudaliyar’s valuation, Rs. 86* 72, for plantation. In considering itreasonable I gave 10 per cent, on value of spil and plantation forseverance. I also gave 60 cents for a piece of wall. I also allowedRs. 168 for expenses of removal. The total of compensation, excludingRs. 168, was Rs. 1,680* 24, and I added 10 per cent, as compensation forremoval, which would allow Rs. 20 rent for six months, leaving Rs. 48for removal of furniture. Total tendered, Rs. 1,848* 24. I awardedthat on 30th July, 1894. I consider my award ample, considering whatI paid for other property along the line.
Cross-examined.—Ahangama is fairly thickly populated. The plandoes not show the extent of land left: on the south-west was a piece leftbetween the railway and road. That is shown on the plan. Theother side is a larger piece. I do not know whether the road is a minorroad or a Gansabhawa road. I made no separate estimate of trees ormaterials (shown a plan). The measurements in this plan do notcorrespond with the measurements taken for me. I only checked onemeasurement, the front wall of the northern house. My notes do notshow which measurements refer to which house. I do not remember alarge jak tree.
Mr. Tillekeratne, the Mudaliyar of Talpe, deposed as follows:—
I am Mudaliyar of Talpe, and have been so for three years. This landis in it. On Government Agent’s order I went to the land with fiveheadmen and a mason and a carpenter. I and the headman estimatedthe land and the trees. The trees were :—
Rs. c. Rs. c.
2 cocoanut, 25 years 30 0 1 imbul 0 50
1 imbul 1 50 1 jak loo
1 anona 1 0 1 cocoanut 10 0
1 cocoanut, 35 years 12 0 1 plantain 0 72
1 cocoanut, 30 years 10 0 1 mi .. 4 0 86 72
2 cocoanut. 10 years 7 0
( 237 )
and we valued the bare soil at- Rs. 600 per acre. That is similar to wbat 1608.others in Ahangama accepted. I think a garden planted like that August JO.
without building is worth Rs. 1,000 an acre in Ahangama. Six or seven
months before this lot was acquired for Government, Governmentacquired two lots in the high road at Ahangama. I do not rememberthe rate. 1 also appraised the buildings with the aid of the mason andthe carpenter. Three of the buildings appeared very old and one new;that was valued by me at Rs. 253—the eastern building. I got themason and carpenter to estimate what each of those buildings wouldcost to build. I adopted their valuation, wbiob was :—
Two houses were of wattle and daub and two of sun-dried brick. Cocoa-nut rafters and some jak rafters in the outer verandah. Of the southernbuilding, the reepers of veraniya, the wallplates were in some plaoe ofjak. There is one* small piece of land left. One side of the railwaycorresponded with the boundary of the land on the piece left, south ofthe line. There are seven cocoanut trees and a breadfruit tree. Iconsider my valuation is fair valuation. I think the market value ofthe northern building was Rs. 350, western Rs. 150, southern Rs. 400,eastern Rs. 200. There were two yards mud wall valued at 60 cents.
Cross-examined,.—I never offered to buy a land or house at Ahangama.The piece of wall was where the railway passed, leaving wall on each side.To make a boundary wall you have to go the length of the railway. Itwas 3 ft. by 1 ft. The mason and carpenter are not paid by me. Theheadmen are paid—the vidane arachchi and pattu arachchi. Thenorthern house is 27 ft. 6 in., at outside of verandah, long and 27 wide.It consisted of two rooms with a hall in front. There were jak andcocoanut wallplates, veraniya reepers, jakwood doorframes and doors,and two windows of jak. I cannot remember whether panelled or not.The front door I valued at Rs. 20, two minor doors Rs. 20, two windowsRs. 30. Common iron hinges. The southern house had five doors, twolarge and three small, and one large window, all of jakwood. All ironhinges. The wallplates were jak, the beams cocoanut and jak, delreepers. The western house or kitchen had two doors, jak frames and&apos;shutters of del. I valued each at Rs. 7&apos; 50. The eastern house hasthree doors and four windows. The eastern house was closed when Iwent there. It appeared to have been occupied. I was told that onefamily occupied the northern and southern house. There was a gooddeal of furniture. The doors and windows were painted. The imbultree was not old enough to yield cotton—only the size of the ordinarybamboo. The mi tree must have been very smal 1 by my valuation. Nococoanut tree there was worth more than Rs. 15. I had given more atAhangama. Trees come into bearing in five or six years there. Thesoil on that lot is not bad. The two cocoanut trees (ten years) had notcome into bearing, they must have been-in bad ground. The jak treeis down in my notes 2 cubits in growth and 4 yards long. I cannotexplain that. I cannot remember whether it was bearing. You canbuy a good size jakfruit for 6 cents. I think the tree was fit for timber.
Re-examined.—It is hilly ground. The foundation was cut out of theslope.
After hearing other witnesses the District Judge recorded asfollows;—
Rs. o.
Rs. o.
Southern houseNorthern house
462 48 Western house (a kitchen) 215 25428 95 Eastern house..253 0