
(149 )
THIEDEMAN v. FERNANDO et al.
P. C., Negombo, 20,482.
Arrest of person found drunk and disorderly in a public thoroughfare—Power of police officer in such case—.Criminal Procedure Codp,chapters IV. and V. and s. 34—“ The Police Ordinance, 1865,"s. 51.
The general provisions of chapters IV. and V. of the Criminal Pro-cedure Code, regarding the powers of arrest by the police and pri-vate persons must be regarded as comprising the whole of thepresent law on the subject. A police officer has, therefore,no power* to arrest and detain a person whom he finds drunkand disorderly in a public thoroughfare, except whefi he refuses, onthe demand of the police officer, to give his name and residence, orgives a name and residence which such officer has reason to believeto be false. In that case he may, under the provisions of section 34of the Criminal Procedure Code, be arrested by the police officer inorder that his name or residence may be ascertained.
rJ| &apos;&apos;HE facts of the case appear in the judgment.
Jayawardena, for accused appellants.
Cur. adv. vult.
18th August, 1896. Withers, J.—
One of the appellants, Simeon Fernando, has been convicted ofescaping from the custody of the police in which he was foundto be lawfully detained. He was arrested and detained for the*offence of being drunk and disorderly in a public thoroughfareunder section 219 of the Penal Code. The other appellant, ManoSinno or Manuel Fernando, has been convicted of two offences : oneis the offence of intentionally offering illegal obstruction to the lawfulapprehension of one Juan for the offence of being drunk and dis-orderly in a fublic thoroughfare, under section 220 of the PenalCode; the other offence is that of voluntarily causing hurt to theperson of Constable Wirakoon, under section 314 of the Penal Code.
These are the facts as described by the Police Constable Wira-koon. As he was on duty one evening in Main street, Negombo,he heard the sound of a disturbance near a cigar boutique. Hewent up and found Juan and Simeon before spoken of, on the streetholding each other by the waist cloth and pulling each other. Theywere quarrelling; Juan was asking Simeon to buy him a pint ofarrack. Juan was drunk, and the other smelt of arrack.
The witness called in aid a constable, Ossensa, who was passingby, and the constable arrested Juan and Simeon in order to takethem to the station. On their way a crowd hooted the constablesand encouraged the men to break awsjy from their captors. Simeon,the appellant, succeeded in getting away.
* See footnote in next page—Ed.
1896.
August 17and 18.