
( 65 )
TILLEKERATNE v. SA.MSEDEEN et al.
1900.
June 29 andJuly 3.
D. C., Colombo, 11,779.
Presumption as to formalities in execution of deeds—Civil Procedure Code,
JSOFacts to be proved, before a deed executed by an illiterate person
is admitted in evidence—Code of Mohammedan Laws—How far Moham-medans are governed by the Roman-Dutch Law—Right -of Mohammedanwife to alienate her immovable property.
Where a deed is on the face of it regular, it will bo presumedthat all the formalities required by law were complied with in itsexecution.
The requirement of section 160 of the Civil Procedure Code that,before a document purporting to be executed by an illiterate person whocannot read is put in evidence, it must be proved that at the time hisname was written on or his mark put to it he understood its contents,is merely directory, and may be waived by the parties to an action ; andwhere a person denies the fact that he put his mark to a document, andthat fact is proved by the opposite party, it is not necessary to provefurther that he understood the contents of the document as required bythis section.
Section 10 of Ordinance No. 5 of 1852 extends the Code of Moham-medan Laws drawn up in 1806 for the use of the Moors in the WesternProvince to all Mohammedans in the Island ; and where, in mattersrelating to Mohammedans, this Code is silent the Roman-Dutch Lawapplies.
But inasmuch as a marriage contracted by Mohammedans is not insubstance the same as a monogamous marriage contemplated by theRoman-Dutch Law, the limitation of the powers of married womenunder that law do not apply to the case of married women amongMohammedans, and the latter may therefore alienate their immovableproperty without the intervention of their husbands.
HIS was an action to vindicate a parcel of land which the
plaintiff alleged was in the unlawful possession of thedefendants. The land at one time admittedly belonged to thesecond defendant (a Malay woman) and her brothers and sisters.The plaintiff pleaded a conveyance by them by deed No. 574,dated the 6th January, 1882, to Jamel Hassen, from whom theplaintiff through certain mesne conveyances claimed title. Thesecond defendant denied the execution by her of deed No. 574.and contended further that at its date she was a married woman,and not capable, on that account, of alienating her immovableproperty. Judgment was entered for plaintiff, and the seconddefendant appealed.
Walter Pereira, for second defendant, appellant.—The seconddefendant was a Malay woman, and was not subject to the Codeof Mohammedan Laws introduced in 1806. That Code, as appears6—RR 19790 (12/66)