
( 201 )
TITTEWELLE SANGI v. TITTEWELLE MOHOTTA.D. G., Kurunegala, 1,948.
1903.
February 18
and 20.
Kandyan Law—The lathimi rights of a childless widow to her husband&apos;s acquired.property, m preferencetohis half-brother—Relativeweightofthe
authority of Armour and Sowers.
Where a Kandyan died leaving acquired property, and there was acontest between his childless widow and his hall-brother for suchproperty:
Held, that the widow was his heir, and as such was-absolutely entitledto his property by lathimi right in preference to his half-brother.
The relative weight oftheopinions of Sawers andArmouronthe
point in question discussed and considered, and the latter authorityapproved and followed.
n K lands in question in this case were the acquired property
of Kiriya Gandureya, a Kandyan, who died two years beforeaction brought. The plaintiff, as Kiriya’s widow,, complained thatthe defendant, who was her husband’s half-brother, had takenforcible possession of the lands. Kiriya left no children. Hesurvived his parents. He never had a brother. He had a sister,who predeceased him, leaving no issue.
The District Judge (Mr. Mason) found that in such a case, on theauthority of Armour (Perera’s Edition, p. 23), plaintiff, as Kiriya’swidow, had an absolute lathimi right to the lands of her husband,to the&apos; exclusion of the deceased’s more distant relatives. Headded: “ Mr. Modder’s contention that defendant being a half-brother was not a distant relation, and therefore not liableto exclusion, is untenable. The grammatical construction of thewords ‘ to the exclusion of the deceased’s more distant relations ’is to the exclusion of the deceased’s relations more distant thanthose already named, i.e., full-brothers and sisters and theirchildren.”
A decree was accordingly entered in favour of plaintiff for thelands claimed, with damages and costs.
The defendant appealed.
Sampayo, K.C., for appellant.—The passage cited from. Armour,p. 23, in support of the plaintiff’s contention, is not on all fourswith the present case, and does not apply. Armour’s illustrationwould apply . if the special conditions therein specified werefulfilled. He wrote regardless of the strict requirements ofgrammatical rules and canons of construction, as his book plainlyshowed, and Perera adopted the author’s language- in his edition.Therefore it would not be wise to be guided by the grammaticalarrangement of the phrases and sentences in Armour’s book,