
CASESDECIDED BY
THE SUPREME COURT OF CEYLON,THE COURT OF VICE-ADMIRALTYIN THE ISLAND,AKS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN INHER PRIVY COUNCILON APPEAL FROM THE
SUPREME COURT OF THE ISLAND.UDUMA LEBBE et al v. SETADU ALI at at.D. 0., Kurunigala, 857.
Civil Procedure Code, it. 481 and 582—Appointment of next friend unders. 481—Certificate of curatorihip under t. 582—Necutity for inquiryat to value of minor&apos;t property upon application for appointment ofnext friend.
A person who hu been regularly appointed aa next friend undersection 481 of the Civil Procedure Code haa a right to sue withouta certificate of curatorahip under section 582.
Per Bbowne, J.—A certificate of curatonhip is necessary only foractions instituted (or defended) by a curator in his own name qua curator,and is not necesmry for actions instituted (or defended) by a minorby his next friend or guardian ad litem.
In regard to the proviso of section 582, when application is madefor the appointment of next friend or guardian, it is not necessary toinquire into the value of the minor’s property. Such inquiry is neces-sary only when it is sought to appoint a curator generally, or for the
limited purpose contemplated by that section.
VOL. I.
B
( 2 )
Per Withers, J.—If a next friend claims charge of a minor’sproperty of the value of Rs. 1,000 or over for any of the reasons statedin section 582, he cannot institute an action with reference to thatproperty, unless he first takes out a certificate of curatorship.
D. C., K^galla, 160 (2 S. C. R. 81, S C. L. R. 20), commented upon.
IS was an action in ejectment brought by the plaintiffs to
recover certain lands which they averred they inheritedfrom one Maimo Natchia, and from which they were ousted bythe defendants. The fifth and sixth plaintiffs, Ossen andMahommadu, being minors, the first plaintiff, their father, was,on his application, appointed their next friend for the purposeof this action. On the day of trial, the court ex mero motu calledupon the plaintiffs’ Proctor to show cause why the action shouldnot be dismissed, on the ground that the first plaintiff’s appoint-ment as the next friend of the minors was invalid, because nocertificate was obtained in accordance with section 582 of theCivil Procedure Code, and no inquiry was made to ascertain thevalue of the property.
After argument, the District Judge ordered that the case betaken off the trial roll to enable the first plaintiff to obtain therequisite authority to sue under section 582 of the CivilProcedure Code.
The plaintiffs appealed.
The case was argued before Lawrth, A.C.J., and Brownb, J.,and judgment being reserved, it was, at the request of theirLordships, argued again before the Full Court (consisting ofLawrib, A.C.J., and Withers and Brownb, JJ.) on the 8thMarch, 1895.
Wendt, for the appellants.
Sampayo and Blazi, for the respondents.
12th March, 1895. Brownb, J.—
In this action fifth and sixth plaintiffs are minors, and beforethe action was instituted the first plaintiff, their father, was (byMr. Dunuwille, Acting District Judge) appointed their nextfriend in order to institute this action of ejectment and fordamages against the defendants. It is to be noted, however, thatthe application was not accompanied by a copy of the plaintproposed to be filed, as this Court (2 C. L. B. 82 and 168, and1 S. C. B. 802) has directed should be always done.
The appointment was, however, made, and has not been objectedto on that ground.