
( 118 )
1899.
January 19.
UKKU NAIDE v. SUREN DRA.
C. B., Kurunegala, 5,203.
Arbitration—Extension of time for making award—Civil Procedure Code,
ss. 683 and 691—Conduct of parties—Estoppel.
Where parties consent to refer their disputes to an arbitrator, theyought to be bound by the award, unless there are any reasons which,according to the Civil Procedure Code, justify the award being remittedfor correction or set aside altogether.
When the time for making the award has expired, the Court mayenlarge the time on cause shown.
Where an arbitrator, not having filed his award within the due date,applied in the presence of the parties for further time to make hisaward, and no objection was made to such application, so that thearbitrator filed his award and the case was allowed to stand over for theparties to show cause, if any, against the award, and the defendant’sonly objection to the award was that it was not filed within the periodoriginally fixed by the Court,—
Held, that the defendant was estopped by his conduct from raisingsuch an objection.
HE facts pertinent to the present appeal in this case are
these. On the 8th March, 1898, the parties referred allmatters in dispute between them in an action pending in Courtto the sole arbitration of one Manapage Korala. The time fixedfor filing the award was the 19th of the following month, April.On that day, the parties appeared before the Commissioner andthe case was ordered to be “ laid over ” for the 13th May, 1898,in consequence of the arbitrator not having sent in his award, andit was noted in the journal entry of that date that attention ofthe arbitrator should be called to the delay. On the 13th May theparties came to Court, but the Commissioner was absent on dutyat Puttalam. According to a minute made by the Secretary of theCourt in the absence of the Commissioner, it appeared that thearbitrator also w’as present and asked for further time to makehis award, naming the 27th of May. The case was “ laid over ”for the 20th May. On that day no one appeared in Court, andthe Commissioner ordered,&apos; the case to be “ laid over ” for the27th May, 1898.
On the 27th May, 1898, according to the journal entry, the partiesappeared in Court, the awrard was filed, and the case “ laid overfor the parties to show cause, if any, against the award. On the13th June, 1898, the parties appeared in Court, and according to theproceedings of that day the defendants only had cause to show