
Present: Ennis A.G. J. and De Sampayo J.UNNANSE et al v. UNNANSE.
202—D, C. Kandy, 2,678.
Buddhist ecclesiastical lav>—Rules of succession—Claim -that certainfamilies had the right to appoint the incumbents,
“ There are only two roles of succession known to the Buddhistlaw, namely, sisyanusisya paramparawa or pupillary successionand siwuru paranvparawa, which is also a form of pupillary succes-sion, but with the special characteristic that the pupil is a bloodrelation of the original priestly incumbent. In the absence of anyevidence to the contrary, the presumption is that the incumbencyis subject to the sisyanusisya paranvpamwa rule of succession.”The right of certain families to appoint an incumbent when avacancy ficcurs considered.
H. J. 0. Pereira, K.C. (with him J. S. Jayawardene and Cooray),for appellant.
E, W. Jayawarden, for respondents. .
March 22, 1921. Ennis A.C.J.—
This was an action for a declaration of title to tke incumbencyof the Dantura Vihare. The incumbency was held by one IndajotiUnnanse, and on his death about nine years ago his pupil Piyaratanesucceeded to the incumbency. Piyaratane subsequently disrobedhimself, and died about four years ago.
The plaintiffs claim the incumbenoy as pupils of Indajoti. Thedefendant sets up a title to it by virtue of an appointment bymembers of the Dehigama and Giragama families, by whom- heasserted the patronage of the vihare was held.
The learned District Judge held that succession to the incumbencywas governed by the sisyanusisya, and he gave judgment for theplaintiffs.
On appeal I see no reason to interfere with the learned Judge’sfinding of fact that the plaintiffs were the pupils of Indajoti, asproved by the production of the lekam mitiya and the evidence ofSri Deerananda Unnanse.
The main question in the case and on appeal was whether thesuccession to the incumbency in the case of the Dantura Vihare wasgoverned by the sisyanusisya.
In the case of Ratnapala Unnanse v. Kewitigala Unnanse,1 therule was enunciated that with all vihares there is a presumption
1 (1879) 2 S. a. a 26.