
( 468 )
1917.
Present: Wood Renton C.J. and Shaw J.UPARIS v. SUBASINGHE et al.
89—D. C. (Inty.) Oalle, 11,573.
Fiscal&apos;s sale—Payment of money due under writ to judgment-creditor&apos;sproctorbeforesale—PaymentcommunicatedtoFiscal—Fiscal&apos;s
letter authorizing stay of sale not received by officer who conductedthe saletill aftersale—Power ofFiscal to staysalewithout order of
Court—Civil Procedure Code, ss. 226, 842, 848.
A Fiscal has no legal power, to stay a sale otherwise than uponan order of Court. He may adjourn the sale.
It is no doubt customary for Fiscals or their officers to stay salesupon the application of parties to proceedings, but they do so attheir own risk. The safe course for a Fiscal to whom any suchapplicationis madeis to adjournthe sale andreport the matter to
the Court itself.
A judgment-debtor moved to have a Fiscal’s sale set aside, onthe ground that he had satisfiedthe decree byfullpayment to the
judgment-creditor’s proctor two days before tbe sale took place,and that the fact of that payment had been duly communicatedto the Fiscal with a request to stay the sale. It waB only after thesale that the Fiscal’s letter authorising a stay of the sale wasreceived by the Fiscal’s officer who conducted the sale.
Held, that in the absence of fraud on the part of the purchaserthe sale cannot be set aside.
rjl HE facts are set out in the judgment.
t
W. Jayewardene, for purchaser, appellant.
Bawa, K.G., for plaintiff, respondent.
May 29, 1917. Wood Renton C.J.—
On July 8, 1916, three lots of land called Madangahawatta weresold by the Fiscal’s officer in execution of a decree for pro ratdcosts due by the plaintiff and the fourteenth to the eighteenthdefendants. On August 3,1916, these parties filed petitions
praying for an order to set aside the sale, on the grounds that theyhad satisfied the decree by full payment to the judgment-creditor’sproctor two days before the sale took place, and that the fact of thatpayment had been duly communicated to the Fiscal, with a requestto stay the sale. The purchaser of two of the lots in question.consented &apos;to the sale being cancelled. The purchaser of the thirdlot showed cause against the application, and the learned DistrictJudge, after hearing evidence, set the sale aside. He appeals againstthat order.
The ground of the District Judge’s decision is that the appellantwas fully aware that payment had been made, and, in view of thedecisions of this Court in GoonetUleke vl Qoonetilleke 1 and Appuhamyv. Adrian,* and cp. Hamtdu v. Kirihamy,3 there can be np doubtbut that that ruling would be correct if the evidence showed conducton the part of the appellant that could be regarded as equivalentto fraud. I do not think, however, that the facts of the presentcase are capable of supporting a finding to that effect. On July 6the whole amount of the judgment-debt was paid to the execution-creditor’s proctor. The appellant. is the father of the execution-creditor, whose name, by an inexplicable error on the part of theFiscal’s Arachchi, was at first put down as that of the purchaser atthe execution sale. This mistake was subsequently rectified bythe substitution of the name of the real purchaser, the appellanthimself. The appellant was a party to the partition proceedingsin which the judgment-debt for pro ratd costs was incurred. Theproctor was.not examined as a witness at the trial. These circum-stances would no doubt point to the conclusion that the execution-creditor must have been aware of the fact of payment, and theymight have constituted valuable corroboration of other evidenceshowing that the appellant also was aware that the judgment-debthad been satisfied. But the only other facts that can be reliedupon for that purpose are the under-value at which the propertyvfas sold, namely Rs. 59, as compared with the alleged value ofRs. 2,000, and the circumstance that before the sale the judgment-debtors who were at the. spot informed the Fiscal&apos;s Arachchi, inthe appellant’s presence, that the money had been paid, and that aletter staying the sale had been sent from the Fiscal’s office. Thisevidence, does not affirmatively prove that the appellant heardwhat the judgment-debtors said, although it is no doubt highlyprobable that he did so. It was only after the sale had been
» (1912) 15 N. L. R. 272.a (M14) 17 N. L. R. 392.
3 (1916) 19 N. L. R. 216.