
( 225 )
Present : Bertram A.C.J. and Shaw J.
USOOF v. BAHIMATH et al.
29—D. G. Colombo, 46,977.Jns. accrescendi—Fidei commissum created by deed inter vivos—Accrualwith respect to- interests after the death of the fiduciary — Fideicommissum from generation to generation—“ Share, and share
alike ”—Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, s.20—Prohibition against
sale, alienation, or mortgage — Is alienation by _ last will contraryto prohibition ?—Rule ejusdem generis—Bes judicata—Privies.
By deed of July 22, 1871, Lebbe Marikar gifted the property inquestion to his daughter Candoo, subject to the condition that she“ shall not Bell, alienate, mortgage, or encumber the same, but shallpossess the same during her life, and that after her death the sameshall devolve on her children share and share alike, or if there bebut one child, on such child, and thereafter on the child or childrenof suchherchildorchildren, and so from generation to generation
under the fidei oommissum law of inheritance. "■ The deed furtherprovided that in &apos; the event of Candoo dying without leaving anyissue surviving her, the property Bhall go to her heirs, and that&apos; Candoo,herchildorchildren,or the person or persons lawfully
claiming under the deed, may transfer to her, his, or their “lawfulheir orheirs’1 underthe samecondition. Candoo died leaving her
surviving four children:Bahimath,Abdul, Ahamad, and Mariam.
The last two children died intestate and issueless. The plaintiff,who is one of the children of Bahimath, instituted a partition actionclaiming one-sixth share, and allotted the other shares to the otherchildren of Bahimath and to the children of Abdul. The appellant(husband of Candoo) intervened and claimed the whole land: one-halfof the shares of Ahamad and Mariam by intestate succession, and therest by virtue of a conveyance from Bahimath and by a last&apos; will ofAbdul.
Held,(1)Thattheappellantinherited no share by intestate
succession from Ahamad and &apos; Mariam, – and that their shares accruedto the benefit of Abdul and Bahimath under the bond of fideicommissum.•-
The restriction on alienation contained in the deed extended toalienation by will as well, and consequently the appellant gained notitle under Abdul Cader’a will.