
( 8 )
VALLIAMMAI el al. r. ANNAMMAI et al.
1900.
June 8.
C., Batticaloa, 1,968.
Marriage—Cohabitation as husband and wife—Presumption of marriage—Ordinance No. 13 of 1883, s. 21—Ordinance No. 8 of 1865, s. 6*—Hindumarriage—Registration—Marriage with deceased wife&apos;s sister.
In Ceylon there can be lawful marriages without registration thereofunder the local Ordinances.
The presumption of marriages arising from cohabitation with habitand repute holds good in Ceylon.
By the law of this Colony there is no objection to a man marrying hisdeceased wife’s sister.
LAINTIFPS sued one Katpagepillai in case No. 1,685 of the
District Court of Batticaloa, and having recovered judg-ment against him, sued out a writ of execution to seize and sellan undivided one-third share of a garden called Kalvetuvalavu,the property of the judgment-debtor by right of inheritance fromone Tangamma; but the defendants claimed it when it was seized,and their claim was upheld by the District Court on the 19thNovember, 1898. The plaintiffs raised the present suit to havethat claim set aside, and the one-third share declared bound andexecutable under the judgment in case No. 1,685.
The defendants denied that Katpagepillai was entitled to anundivided one-third share in question by right of inheritancefrom Tangamma. At the trial it appeared that one Peria Kandumarried one Kannatchi, and the whole of the land in questionwas settled upon them. Kannatchi died shortly afterwards leavingbehind one child Tangamma, who with her father became entitledto the whole land. He then lived with Kannatchi’s sisterAnnammai, the first defendant in this case, and had six childrenby her, the eldest of whom was the second defendant. Plaintiffasserted that Peria Kandu lived in concubinage with Annammai,and that therefore all her children were illegitimate; that onPeria Kandu’s death the whole land vested in Tangamma, whohaving died without issue, the land passed to her aunt (the firstdefendant) Katpagepillai (the judgment-debtor in D. C-, 1,685)and one Sinnepillai in equal shares.
The defendauts, on the other hand, contended that Peria Tambymarried first defendant according to the custom of the countryand lived together as man and wife, though their marriage wasnot registered, and that therefore it was a lawful marriage, andall his six children were legitimate.
The District Judge upheld the second marriage, and said thaton Tangamma’s death without issue her “ half brothers and sisters