
( 3X1 )
VANSANDEN et al. v. MACK et al.
D. C., Colombo, 2,978.
Last will, construction of— “ The children of the testatrix and their descendants"
—Fidei commissum—Tenancy in common—Ordinance No. 21 of 1844,
{ 20—intention of testatrix—Family arrangement.
Per Bonser, O.J.—No special words are necessary to create a fideicommissum, but effect is given to it if it can be collected from anyexpressions in the instrument that it waa the testator’s intention tocreate it.
General rales for the interpretation of wills are often unsafe guides.The only true criterion is the intention of the testator, to be gatheredfrom the will and the circumstances of the case.
Per Bbowne, A.J.—The expression “ my children and their descen-dants&apos;” differs in nowise from “ my children and my descendants."
Per Withers, J.—A direction in a last will that the children andtheir descendants shonld not sell or&apos;alienate the property devised is initself a creation of a fidei commissum, and the children appointed heirsfor the residue of the estate took such property subject to the fideicommissum.
If a thing is to be preserved intact and disintegrated for the benefitof coming generations, then the tenants for the time being, while theseal of the fidei commissum is still upon that thing, with possibility ofsucceeding beneficiaries, must be considered as tenants to whom the ruleof jus accrescendi is applicable, in order to serve the express purposefor which the fidei commissum was created, and the operation of theOrdinance No. 21 of 1844, section 20, will be suspended till either thereis no possibility of succession or till the term fixed for fidei commissumhas expired.
Per Curiam.—Whatever may have been the intention of the testatoraa to the creation of a fidei commissum, where the will has been construedby the parties as if the testator had impressed a fidei commissum on theproperty, and such construction has formed the basis of family arrange-ments for a long period, it shonld not be disturbed.
HE plaintiffs, as the surviving descendants of one Petronelia
Evekenel, prayed for a declaration of title to a certain houseand grounds, upon the averment that she had devised the propertyby her last will to her sons Johannes and Isaac by her first husbandBeckkenhoff and to her daughter Sarolomina by her secondhusband Francois, on the condition that they should not sell oralienate the same, but that it should be possessed by them andtheir descendants. Plaintiffs contended that as Johannes andSarolomina had died without issue, they were entitled to thewhole property as the children of Isaac Beckkenhoff.
They alleged further that in 1865 Anjou, the husband ofSarolomina, having claimed the entire premises, they andFrederick Beckkenhoff, as the children of Isaac Beckkenhoff,instituted the suit No. 45,398. in the District Court of Colomboagainst the said Anjou and obtained a decree in their favour in
1896.October 9and IS.