
( 57 )
VEERASAMY v. TAMBIPILLAI.
1897.
April 8.
D. C., Jaffna, 22,331.
Writ of execution—Motion to re-issue—Defence of debtor that his creditor has notused due diligence in procuring satisfaction upon previous issue of writ.
Where an execution-creditor moved for re-issue of writ after aninterval of six years, averring that at the time the writ was previouslyissued the Fiscal had reported the debtor not to be possessed of any pro-perty, but that now he owned property, and where the debtor resisted themotion on the ground that soon after the writ was issued he had paidand settled the amount of the writ, and where on the day fixed for thehearing of the case he, without proving payment, raised the defence thathis creditor had not used due diligence in procuring complete satisfaction,held that the latter defence was not open to him.
Per Withers, J.—A judgment creditor is not the less entitled tobe paid his judgment debt because his debtor defers payment as longas possible.
Per Lawrie, J.—The two defences of payment and want of duediligence in procuring satisfaction of writ, set up by the execution-debtor, are contradictory. If h6 fails to prove payment, writ shouldre-issue.
N the 2nd July, 1891, plaintiff obtained a decree against the
defendant for Rs. 1,500 and took out execution on 12th Augustfollowing, but as he was unable to point out any property belong-ing to defendant for seizure, the writ was returned unexecuted.On the 11th January, 1897, plaintiff moved for re-issue of the writ,alleging on oath that he had exercised all reasonable diligence tohave the writ executed, but that he was unable to find anyproperty of the defendant; and that now the defendant hadacquired property on which a levy could be made. The defendant,on the other hand, averred that he had paid and settled the amountof the writ soon after it was first issued.
After hearing the parties the District Judge recorded* asfollows: —
“ Mr. Advocate Allegakoon, for defendant, objects that duediligence was not used on the previous occasion to procurecomplete satisfaction of the decree, and that the execution wasnot stayed by the decree-holder at the request of the judgment-
"Mr. Advocate Kanakasabhai, for plaintiff, states that the stepsprovided for by section 219 of the Civil Procedure Code were nottaken by the plaintiff for the reason that the defendant had noproperty, and that he only became the owner of property on13th November, 1896; that therefore the only question for theCourt to decide is whether the defendant had or had not between