
THE
NEW LAW REPORTS OF CEYLON.VOLUME XVI.
Present: Lascelles C.J. and De Sampayo A.J.
WEERE SEKERA v. CARLINA et aL96—D. C. Oalle, 10,779.
Fidei commissum—Property given to “ descending generations ”—Prohibition against sale or mortgage—May legatee transfer propertyby deed of donation?—Partition by fiduoiarii—Rights of fideicommissum not affected.
A last will contained the following clause :—“ I do hereby directthat the legatees shall for ever possess the immovable property ofmy said estate throughout their descending generations, in anyway, without selling or mortgaging the same.”
Held, the clause created a fidei commissum.
Lascelles C.J.—I cannot accede to the suggestion that thewill which prohibited the sale or mortgage of the property byimplication permitted it to be alienated by donation.
A decree for partition of a property subject to a fidei commissumdoes not destroy the fidei commissum, even where the rights of thefidei commissarii have not been expressly reserved.
T
HE facts are set out in the following judgment of the DistrictJudge (E. J. Smith, Esq.): —
This is a contested partition case for a small block of land, of only 24perches in extent, called Radelgaha-addarasehoisgewatta, the contestcentering round the question whether or not it is subject to a fideicommissum under an old will.
On July 4, 1840, one Louis Perera, or-Maha Vidane, and his con-sort Anohamy made a joint will before a notary, in which, after providingfor the temple, they say they declare “ the first dying of both to nomi-nate and constitute the surviving to be his or her universal and generalheir, and this of all their goods, movable and immovable…..legaciesand inheritances, none excepted, which the first dying is to leave behind-at decease, all the same to be possessed and inherited by the survivingas his or her own property without any molestation of any person orpersons whomsoever.” Survivor to be sole executor.
Vol. XVI.1
1912.
6r
1913.
We&resekera
*. Carlina
( 2 )
“ Lastly, the testator do declare that after the demise of both, afterpaying all debts, legacies, inheritances, and funeral .expenses, theremainder to be inherited and possessed by the testator&apos;s only daughterCaroline* lawful wife of Don Samuel, and their issue; provided alwaysour will and desire is that they nor their descendants shall have no.power of mortgaging, selling, or otherwise alienating the landed pro-perty or the houses and buildings contained in our dwelling gardenand that the same shall not be subject to their debts.*’
The will was proved by the survivor Anohamy in the Testament-ary Case 309 instituted in June, 1841—inventory filed in 1848, and finalaccount in 1849 by her as executrix. The residing garden referred tois the one in question in this, case (part of it).
– (4) Subsequently, in February, 1855, apparently when sufferingfrom an attack of smallpox, which led to her death, Anohamy made asubsequent will dealing with property “ entitled to her by right of her. husband under the will of 1840,” and she made the following bequestsinter alia:—
(vii.) To grandson Don Bastian de Silva half of all the movable andimmovable property not previously devised, after paying debts.
(viii.) To Christian de Silva Weerasekera one-third of the remaininghalf.
(ix.) To grandson&apos; Don Adrian, de Silva Weerasekera one-third ofhalf
(xi.) “ I do hereby direct that the legatees should for ever possess theimmovable property of&apos; my estate throughout their generations,” in anyway, without selling or mortgaging the same.
Probate for Anohamy’s will was applied for in D. C. case 1,012instituted in 1865. Don Christian, though named as executor and alegatee, opposed the probate as guardian ad litem of his minor son(Don Adrian by Ano’s daughter Caroline, whose second husband he was),as at the time of its alleged execution she was not of disposing mind,and also on the ground (in petition-of- appeal) that having made thejoint will referred to above, been executrix under it, and accepted thebenefit of it she could not make a different disposition of the property,which admittedly had been received from her husband; and was todescend to their daughter and issue under a fidei commissum created bythe joint will.
The Supreme Court in January, 1858, confirmed the DistrictJudge’s order declaring the will proved, adding that the right of thetestatrix to make the will or to devise the property held by her cannotbe affected by proof of the will, but must form the subject of a separatecivil suit.
Christian finally assumed duties as co-executor, and latterly assole executor, and closed the estate in 1876.
In 1878 Christian instituted a partition suit against the co-ownersof the residing garden, and land was duly partitioned in May, 1880, hereceiving lot B as one-sixth share.. In that case his stepson DonBastian was first defendant, whose only objection to the proceedingswas the scheme of distribution proposed. (The Court was not informedthat the land was subject to a fidei commissum.)
1912.
( 3 )
In 1890 Christian gifted one-third of lot B to his son Teadoria,and ■when his estate was under administration in 1910 the presentplaintiff alleged it was property subject to fidei commissum, and gavenotice that he intended to take a separate action about it, and thispartition case is apparently the result.
To come now to the issues raised, I am of opinion that Anohamy,after signing the joint &apos;will, had no power to alienate the garden inquestion by will, being, as survivor, fiduciary heir to hold the propertysubject to a fidei commission in favour of her daughter, and after herdaughter’s death (which the evidence clearly shows, I think, took placebefore her own) in favour of her issue by Don Samuel, i.e., Don Bastian.
The question, as we have seen, if her power to make the will wasraised in the testamentary case by the executor Christian (Bastion’sfather-in-law) asjcepresenting his own minor son Adrian, Carlina havingbeen married to Samuel in 1837, it may safely be assumed, I think, thatBastian was of age at the time of the Supreme Court judgment of 1858»yet neither Christian nor Bastian took the steps proposed to have thequestion deoidecHn a separate action. Bastian was a beneficiary underAnohamy’s will, and took the benefit under it, and was party to thepartition case of 1878 for one of the devised properties, and got his shareas heir under Anohamy’s will, and must be deemed to have elected toabide by that will rather than claim the whole property as having beenheld in trust for himself. The point is not now raised by him, but infavour of a son of Christian by Carlina; but I am of opinion that notrust was created in the original will in favour of Christian’s children,the words “ their issue ” referring only to Carlina and Samuel’s; andChristian could by marriage get no part, fidei commission property notentering into the community of property between husband and wife.
I think all parties to the case are now estopped from disputingthe validity of the will of 1855 (however incompetent Anohamy was tomake it), which has been acted upon for over thirty years.
We next come to the right under that will. After consideringthe authorities, I am of opinion that the bequest to Christian was subjectto a valid fidei commissum in favour of his lineal descendants.
This being so, the special lot of land apportioned to him in thepartition case must be considered burdened by the fidei commissum,and he had no power to gift to any special son—at any rate anythingmore than his proportionate share—and that subject to the fidei com-missum, so that it reverted to himself on the son’s death issueless.
The first plaintiff and first defendant now being the sole linealdescendants of Christian, who died some six years ago, I find thementitled to half each of the lot B, subject to the fidei commissum,
St. V. Jayeivardene, for appellant.—The material words of theclause in question are not sufficient to create a fidei commissum.There is no clear indication of the persons to be benefited. Thewords “ throughout their descending generations ” are too vague.The party must be designated in a manner so as to admit of no doubt.And in cases of doubt it is the policy of Courts to declare the propertyfree from the burden of fidei commissum. Further, the will onlyprohibits sale or mortgage; here the transfer was a deed of donation.
Weeresekerav. Carlina
1912.
W eeresehera
v. Garlina
( 4 )
A fidei commissary prohibition is strictly construed and restricted tomodes of alienation expressly prohibited, unless general terms areused so as to include all kinds of alienations (Grot. op. No. 32, p. 290).Thus, where alienation into* vivos is prohibited, the right to leaveby will is not prohibited. (Voet, bk. XXXVI., lit. i., section 27;Sondes on Restraints against Alienation 135.)
Even if there is a fidei commissum, the decree in the partition haswiped it out. To hold otherwise would be to take away from thefinal and conclusive effect given to partition decrees by the Ordi-nance. The object of the Ordinance’is to settle disputes to titleonce for all, and it would be dangerous to create an exception ofthis sort, particularly because the remedy of an action for damagesis always open to an aggrieved party. Such an exception wouldnullify the effect of section 9 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1868.,
Cooray, for respondent.—The intention to impose a fidei commis-sum and the institution of the fidei commissarius is abundantly clear.The language employed is identical with that used in the willconstrued in Ibanu Agen v. Abeyesekera.1 There the Supreme Courtdecided in favour of a fidei commissum.
The partition decree does not wipe out the fidei commissum. SeeBabey Nona et al. v. Silva.2 It is impossible for fidei commissariuswho may not be in existence to obtain any relief for damage doneto their interests.
A. St. V. Jayewardene.—The judgment in Babey Nona et al. v.Silva 2 should be reconsidered, as it is in conflict with section 9of the Partition Ordinance.
August 9, 1912. Lascelles C.J.—
It is unnecessary to recapitulate the facts of this case, which arefully set out in the judgment of the learned District Judge. Theappellants, whose claim is based on a deed of gift from Don Christianin favour of his son Mendis, attack the judgment partitioning theland B in equal shares between the plaintiff and the first defendant,on the ground (1) that the will of Anohamv did not create afidei commissum in favour of her lineal descendants, and (2) thateven if a fidei commissum were established, it was determined bythe partition decree under which the lot B was awarded to DonChristian. With regard to the first point, the material words of thewill are translated as follows: —
“ I do hereby direct that the legatees shall for* ever possess theimmovable property of my said estate throughout theirdescending generations, in any way, without selling ormortgaging the same.” i
i (1903) 6 N. L. R. 344.2 (1906) 9 N. L. R. m
( 6 )
Mr. A. St. V. Jayewardene has referred us to most of the localdecisions and to the passages in the text books which attempt todescribe the language which, in a deed or will, is sufficient to createa fidei commissum, but it seems to me that in the case of Ibanu Agenv. Abeyesekera1 we have an authority which is almost exactly in point.In that case, as here, the question arose with regard to a will, and notwith regard to a deed, and the formula which in that case was heldsufficient to create a fidei commissum closely resembles the languageof the will now under consideration. It is also material that thewill in that case, as here, was in the Sinhalese language.
Wendt J. laid down the principle of construction which is appli-cable in such cases as follows:—
“ In construing a will the paramount question is, What was theintention of the testator? And if it is clear that theperson to whom the property is in the first place givenis not to have it absolutely, if it is also clear who is totake after him, and upon what event, then the Courtwill give effect to the testator&apos;s intention.”
1912.
LaSOEUiBS
O.J.
Weeresekerac. Carlina
Here, although the wishes of the testatrix to establish a fideicommissum in favour of the direct descendants were not expressedin technical language, there can be no question that it was intendedthat the devisees under the will should not take absolutely, butthat on their respective deaths their shares should devolve on theirdirect descendants, and I think that, on the authority of the caseto which I have referred, the District Judge was right in holdingthat Don Christian’s shares were subject to a fidei commissum. Icannot accede to the suggestion that the will which prohibited thesale or mortgage of the property by implication permitted it to bealienated by donation. Such a construction would be contrary tothe plainly expressed intention of the testator. Then comes thequestion, Whether the fidei commissum was destroyed by the parti-tion of Don Christian’s share ? On this point we are bound by thedecision in Babey Nona et al. v. Silva,2 from which I see no reason todiffer. I am of opinion that the appeal must be dismissed with costs.
De Sampayo A.J.—I agree.
Appeal dismissed.
♦
1 (1903) 6 N. L. R. 3U.
3 (1906) 9 N. L. R. 251.