
( 409 )
Present: Schneider J.
1924.
WEERASINGHE e. MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF KANDY.
Court of Requests—Action objecting to assessment—Appeal on facts—Leave necessary.
In an action in a Court of Requests objecting to assessmentunder the Municipal Councils Ordinance, there is no appeal on factswithout the leave of the Commissioner.
LATNTIFF brought this action objecting to the assessment of
the annual value of certain premises by the MunicipalCouncil of Kandy. The Commissioner of Requests (W. 0. Stevens,Esq.) upheld the objection. The defendant Council appealedon the facts with the leave of the Commissioner. The respondent’scounsel took the objection that no appeal lay without the leave ofthe Commissioner of Requests. The fact that leave was grantedwas not ascertained till after the judgment of the Supreme Courtwas delivered.
Soertszy for defendant, appellant.
H. V. Perera, for plaintiff, respondent.
February 28, 1924. Schneider J.—
Under the provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance, No. 6of 1910, the defendant Council assessed the annual value of certainpremises belonging to the plaintiff. The plaintiff succeeded in hisobjection to the assessment. The defendant Council has preferredthis appeal against the judgment of the Commissioner of Requests.The appeal is upon pure questions of fact. A preliminary objectionwas taken to the appeal on the ground that no appeal lay upon thefacts, except with leave obtained in accordance with the provisions ofsection 13 of the Court of Requests Amendment Ordinance, No. 12of 1895. The preliminary question argued was whether thisobjection was well founded. If it should succeed, the appeal wouldfail and would have to be dismissed. For the decision of theobjection against the appeal, it is not necessary to refer to anylegislation prior to the Municipal Councils Ordinance, No. 7 of1887, except the Ordinance No. 5 of 1867, which is connected withit. By the combined effect of section 141 of the Ordinance No. 7 of1887 and the Ordinance No. 5 of 1867, a special jurisdiction wasconferred on Court of Requests to hear and determine actionsfounded on objection to assessment of the annua} value of anypremises where the rate or rates did not exceed Rs. 100 and DistrictCourts where it did. A right of appeal was given from the decisionsof such Courts. Section 141 was to the effect that if any person
335—G. JR. K.G/Tidyt lt013.