
( 144 )
1912.
Present: Lascelles C.J. and De Sampayo A.J.WEERAKOON u. JURIS et al.
85—D. 0. Galle, 10,641.
Planting agreement—Planter entitled to a fourth of land on plantingthe land—18 a conveyance necessary after the fulfilment of thecondition ?—Sale—Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, 8. 3.
A conveyance of land may be made to take effect on the fulfilmentof a condition.
By a planting agreement attested by a notary it was agreed.inter atia, that on the event of the planter planting the land heshould be entitled to a fourth share of the soil and trees.
Held, that the planter became entitled to a fourth share of thesoil and trees on the fulfilment of the conditions, and that no&apos;further conveyance was necessary to vest title on the planter.
T
HE facts are set out in the judgment. The material portion ofthe planting agreement was as follows: —
The purport of an agreement for planting caused to be writtenand granted on this 1st day of September,, 1875, is as follows, towit:—
“ That exclusive of about acres extent, and also the portion of,owiti land of the said premises, and described in the planting voucherNo. 817 executed in this office, the remaining extent of the saidpremises is hereby given over to Dangey Dissanhamy, &c., to plantand improve the same with coconut, jak, and other useful trees.
“ Therefore it is agreed that within eight years from the date ofthese presents the said premises should be fully planted, and thatwhen the trees begin to bear fruits, that one-fourth part of suchplantation and one-fourth part of the soil of such extent will beentitled (sic) to the said seven planters, their heirs, &c.”
Bawa, K.C., for first defendant, appellant.
van Langenberg, K.C., for third and fourth defendants and firstto sixth added defendants, respondents.
Samarawickteme, for seventh added defendant, respondent.
Cur. adv. vult.
July 17, 1912. De Sampayo A.J.—
This is a partition action, and the appeal concerns a one-fourthshare of the property, which is claimed by the first defendant-appellant adversely to third and fourth defendants and the addeddefendants, who are respondents to this appeal. One Don Louis
( 146 )
Amarasinghe, being the owner of the entire land, granted aplanting agreement dated January 2, 1872, to eight persons* four ofwhom are now represented by the respondents. While the agreementwas still on foot, the land was sold in execution against Don LouisAmarasinghe in 1875, and was purchased by one Don Johanis deSilva. Thereupon the planters, being under the impression that theFiscal&apos;s sale put an end to the planting agreement, secured from theexecution-purchaser, Don Johanis de Silva, a fresh agreement datedSeptember 1, 1875, containing practically the same terms as theprevious agreement, and they also instituted an action against DonLouis Amarasinghe for damages for being deprived of the benefitof his deed in their favour. The Supreme Court, in appeal in thataction, by its judgment of 1878, held that that agreement and theplanters’ rights thereunder were not affected by the Fiscal’s sale,and dismissed the action. The planters continued to plant and tobe in possession of the land on the footing of the agreement of 1872or of 1875 or on both of them. Don Johanis de Silva died intestate,leaving as his heir a daughter, who was the wife of the first defendant.In 1891 the first defendant and his wife sold three-fourths shares ofthe land to one Don Cornells, from whom the first plaintiff andsecond defendant claim title to those three-fourths shares.
The plaintiff and the first defendant in this case have not beenvery straightforward. They ignored* altogether the planting agree-ments, and omitted to make any reference to interests created there-under. The third, fourth, and fifth defendants, who are three of theoriginal planters, had built substantial houses on the land and were.residing therein for a long time, and as they could not be ignored,.*the plaintiffs in their plaint only made them parties, stating thatthey were entitled to compensation for those houses. The otherrespondents to this appeal had to intervene in this action andinform the Court of their claims. The one-fourth share which therespondents claim under the planting agreement was assigned by theplaintiff to the first defendant, who likewise in his answer, omittingall reference to the planters, asserted title to it. All this is the moreastonishing, as the first defendant and his wife, in their own deed of1891, through which the plaintiffs claim, had expressly ” reservedto themselves and the planters the remaining one-fourth of the soiland plantations.” The first defendant is entitled to no sort ofconsideration in his contest with the respondents.
Consistently with this disingenuous conduct, first defendantasserted at the trial that the planters had failed to fulfil their obliga-tion under the planting agreements and were therefore not entitled,to any interest. But upon the evidence and after personal inspectionof the land the District Judge was satisfied that the land was fullyplanted, except as to a 6mall patch, which, though originally planted,is now bare on account of the peculiar unsuitability of the soilfor any successful plantation. No other conclusion could possibly be
15-
1912.
Db Sampayo
A.J.
Weerakoona. Juris
1912.
Db SamfayoA.J.
Jf&apos;earafcoonv. Juris
( 146 )
drawn in the circumstances of this case, especially seeing that theplanters were allowed without question to be in possession for thelast forty years and more, and even to alienate shares in the land tostrangers, among others to Mr. E. R. Gooneratne, Mudaliyar, who in1904 built a large schoolhouse on the land. Indeed, at the argu-ment before us counsel for the first defendant did not seriouslydispute, that the planters had planted the land, but, in view ofthe contention presently to be noticed, argued that they were onlyentitled to compensation in money on the principle of quantummeruit, and not to any share of the soil.
The main contention on behalf of the first defendant is that theplanting agreements are insufficient of themselves to pass title to theone-fourth share to the planters, that they amount to a mere cove-nant on the part of the landowner to give a deed on the completionof the plantation, anjd that no such deed having been given theplanters had no title. The first of the planting agreements stipu-lated that the planters should plant the land within two years andtake care -of the plantation for the next eight years, and providedthat if they did so, they and their heirs, executors, administrators,and assigns should become entitled to one-fourth of the soil andtrees for their planting trouble. The second of the planting agree-ments similarly provided that on the completion of the plantationthe planters should be entitled to one-fourth share of the soil andtrees, and went on to prohibit the planters from alienating thatone-fourth share, to strangers, and to reserve to Don Johanis de Silvaa right of pre-emption. On the footing that the planters did. fulfiltheir obligation, did or did not the deeds have the effect of vestingtitle to one-fourth share of the land in the planters? We are veryfamiliar with this kind of planting agreement, and in numerouscases the title of the planters on such deeds has been concededwithout any question.
Unless we are forced by law to construe the deeds as contendedfor the appellants, it would obviously be unjust to deprive the re-spondents of the share which it was manifestly intended they shouldhave, and which they have undoubtedly possessed for over fortyyears. The respondents in their answer claimed the one-fourthshare by prescription as well as upon the deeds,- but unfortunatelyno issue was framed at the trial on the question of prescription, andfor that reason the learned District Judge declined to decide thatquestion. But in a partition case, as this is, the framing of issuesis not of much consequence,- and if I were free to deal with the point,I should say, even as the caBe stands, that the respondents haveestablished a good prescriptive title. But I am content to rest myjudgment on a decision of the point actually raised. The OrdinanceHo. 7 of 1840 no doubt requires a notarial instrument for the con-veyance of any interest in land. There is such a deed in this case,but it is contended that a conveyance could only be of a title de
IMS.
( 147 )
presenti, and that where, as in this ease, the title was to vest in thefuture, the deed could be taken only as an agreement to convey, andnot aB a conveyance in itself. No authority has been cited in supportof this argument, and I know of none. Conditional sales, having theeffect of passing title on the fulfilment of the conditions, are wellknown to the Boman-Dutch law. This is in no way affected by theOrdinance No. 7 of 1840 or by any other Ordinance, nor do I see thata conveyance of land to take effect on the fulfilment of a conditionis contrary to principle. In the Civil law there is a distinctionbetween the contract of sale and its consummation, the latter con-sisting in the delivery of the subject-matter to the purchaser. Theplanters in this case having been allowed to continue in possessionafter the period stipulated for the completion of the plantation,there was consummation of the contract of sale, and their title wasthus perfected. In this connection I may say that Mr. Bawa forthe first defendant argued that the agreements did not amount to asale, as a sale oould only be for a price in money, and that they werein fact innominate contracts of the species do ut facias. Even so,the question only is whether the planters fulfilled their part of thecontracts; and, as I said before, they undoubtedly did.
The only other point I need notice is the objection that theseagreements were not stamped with stamps of the value required forconveyances, and that they were not admissible in evidence. Thispoint was not raised in the Court below, nor was it in any way shownthat the instruments did not in fact bear the proper stamps accordingto the Stamp laws then prevailing. Moreover, section 37 (1) ofOrdinance No. 22 of 1909 enacts that where an instrument has beenadmitted in evidence, such admission shall not (subject to anexception which does not apply to this case) be called in questionat any stage in the same suit or proceeding on the ground that theinstrument has not been duly stamped. The agreements wereadmitted in evidence without objection, and the appellant is notentitled to object to them now.
In my opinion the judgment of the District Judge, holding thatthe respondents are entitled to the one-fourth share in dispute, isright, and should be affirmed with costs.
Db SampayoA.J’.
W eerakoon
0. Juris
Lascelles C.J.—I quite agree.
Affirmed.