
( 267
Present: Bertram C.J.and Schneider A.J.
. •r
WIJESURIYA v. KALUAPPU.
33—D. C. {Inly.) OdUe, 14,790.
Proctor—Lien—Proctor paying advocate&apos;e fees and for stomps.
A proctor who personally pays the advocate’s fees and forstamps on behalf of his olient has a lien oh the money which hasbeen recovered by his exertions for such disbursements.
a
T
HE faots are set put in the Judgment of the District judge(L. W. C. Schrader, Esq.):—
In this matter a. purchaser in execution who moved this Court to beput in possession was cast in costs of the first defendant, respondent, inthe matter of his application. The bill was taxed at Rs. 338 46, andthe amount paid in to first defendant’s account on October 21, 1919.Of this, stamp fees and advocate’s fees were seized at the instance ofplaintiff on October 24. The first defendant’s proctor states that hehas a lien on the advocate’s fees Rs&apos;. 73*60 and Rs. 13 *80 for stampsbecause he paid personally.
The question is, Does ibis lien extend to money advanced on behalf ofa client ? Section 75 speaks of “ costs payable to him ” (the proctor)“ under the decree ”; section 212 likewise. Advocate’s fees are payableto the advocate, and are usually received in-advance from-the client bythe solicitor who engages and pays counsel.
Counsel cannot recover by action. The authority given by theClient to the solicitor includes that of engaging counsel, and fees arerecoverable against the client by inclusion in the taxed bill.. If the. proctor advances the fees of counsel or surveyor’s fees, has he the samehen as for “ costs payable to him ? ”
– According to Haisbury XXVI., 1336, the costs in respect of whichthe solicitor’s lien arises must be taxable costs, charges, and expensesincurred by him as solicitor for his cliept, including advances, which maybe disallowed Or moderated on taxation. But this paragraph refers&apos;tothe retaining lien on a client’s papers and documents, and has noreference to the particular lien on the, proceeds of a decree. Thatcomes in at paragraph 1342. The lien over proceeds of- any judgmentsobtainedisa particular lien; it-is not available for the-general balance,of account between suitor and client; it extends only to the costs ofrecovering or preserving the property in question (in a case), includingthe costs of protecting the solicitor’s rights to such costs, and of establish-ing the lien.
Now, the lien which exists-in Geylon law is that" over costs payableto .him ” (the proctor) “ under the decree ” {11 N. L. R. 1), that is,his costs, and “*only such costs as the taxing master has a rightto consider or moderate {15 N. L. R. 51). Advocate’s fees -andsurveyor’s bills are both subject to this scrutiny and surcharge^ But,primarily, heither of them are due to the proctor. The question is,Whether he is entitled to advance and claim a lien as his due ?
22-