
( 80 )
1920,
Preamt: Bertram C.J. and De Sampayo J.
WIJESEKERA v. NAMASIVAYAM.
390—D. G. Colombo, 53,967.
Application to call witnesses after judgment—Courts Ordinance, s9 40—
Commission to examine witness out of the Island after judgment•
An application was made (after judgment and) on appeal toexamine on commission a witness residing out of the Island. TheSupreme Court refused the application in the circumstances of thecase.
Under section 40 of the Courts Ordinance all that the SupremeCourt need consider in an application to call a witness after judg-ment is the interests of justice. But, nevertheless, the Court wouldhave to be satisfied, in any case, that there was some speoial reasonfor such action.
HE plaintiff sued defendant in this action for the recovery of
Rs. 15,000. This sum comprised severalitems of indebtedness,on&of which wasa sum of Rs. 4,439 * 87, which the plaintiff alleged hadbeen paid by him to defendant by mistake in the belief that the samewas due to defendant for guaranteeing certain loans made to him bythe Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, whereas thesaid sum was not due to defendant, inasmuch as the defendant hadnot guaranteed such loans ; and, further, the plaintiff was exemptfrom liability to pay them for the reason that plaintiff dealt directlywith the manager and not through defendant.
The issues framed in respect of this part of plaintiff’s claimwere:—
Did the plaintiff pay the defendant the sum of Rs. 4,439*87 bymistake in the belief that the sums making up that amount were due tohim as shroff of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation forguaranteeing certain loans made by the said bank ?
Were the loans not, in fact, guaranteed, and were the said sumsmaking up the amount of Rs. 4,439 * 87 not due ?
If so, was plaintiff entitled to reclaim the Said sum of Rs. 4,439 * 87 ?
The defendant led evidence to prove that in the case of all Cey-lonese and Indian customers of the bank all applications for financialhelp had invariably to be either recommended or guaranteed by him,and that no loans to, or overdrafts by, such customers were givenby the bank, except through defendant’s intervention or on hisrecommendation.
The plaintiff issued interrogatories (15), (16), (30), (31), and (32),Which were in the following terms:—
Do you admit that the bank does business with two classes ofpeople in Colombo, viz., one class dealing with the bank through youand the other class dealing direct with the bank 1